Based on 
The Chronicles of Narnia 
by C.S. Lewis 

LEAPOFTHELION 
by Curtis Norris 

AN INTRODUCTION TO 
THE LAND OF NARNIA 

Based on The Chronicles of Narnia by C.S. 
Lewis, Narnia Solo Games™ invite the reader into 
the magical realm of daring children, talking ani- 
mals, evil witches, Asian the Lion, and noble kings 
and queens. The enchanted land of Narnia, rich in 
conflict and wonder, provides the perfect back- 
ground for solo games. Welcome to the fantasy and 
excitement of C.S. Lewis' Narnia! 

Near the very beginning (but not quite exactly at 
it), the Lion named Asian opened his mouth and 
blew a long, warm breath over the creatures who 
stood in a wide circle around him. There were 
rabbits and moles and badgers. There were dogs and 
leopards and horses. There was even a pair of 
elephants ! The beasts swayed as though pushed by 
a strong wind, and clear, silvery voices from beyond 
the sky (it was the stars) sang in chorus. A quick 
flash like lightning (that burnt nobody) made every 
drop of blood in the animals' bodies tingle. Then 
Asian spoke in a deep, wild voice. 


THE FOUNDING OF NARNIA 

"Narnia, Narnia, Narnia, awake. Love. Think. 
Speak. Be walking trees. Be talking beasts. Be 
divine waters." Wild people stepped out from the 
trees, gods and goddeses of the wood holding the 
hands of Fauns and Dwarfs and Satyrs. The river 
god and his Naiad daughters rose from the watery 
depths of the river. All these and all the beasts 
answered the Lion in their different voices, low or 
high, thick or clear. "Hail, Asian. We hear and obey. 
We are awake. We love. We think. We speak. We 
know." 

Thus Narnia became the land of the Talking 
Animals, waking trees, and living waters. It was not 
a country of men (as Trufflehunter the Badger later 
told Prince Caspian), but it was a country for a man 
to be King of. At the Lion's order, the Dwarfs 
forged two crowns from a tree of true gold; they set 
the one with rubies and the other with emeralds. 
When the crowns had been cooled in the river, 
Asian placed them on the heads of King Frank and 
Queen Helen in solemn ritual. 

"Rise up King and Queen of Narnia, father 
and mother of many Kings that shall be in 
Narnia and the Isles and Archenland. Be just 
and merciful and brave. The blessing is upon 
you. " 

The royal pair and their children lived happily in 
that pleasant land. The boys married nymphs and 
the girls married wood-gods and river- gods. The 
second son became King of Archenland, and his 
descendants were always great friends to their 
cousins in Narnia. And their subjects prospered in 
joy and peace. 

Many hundreds of years later, evil came to Nar- 
nia. A wicked Witch brought the snow and ice of 
everlasting winter: a winter that would last one 
hundred years without Christmas or Spring. Four 
children (named Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy) 
brought an end to her rule and took the four thrones 
in Cair Paravel at Asian's command. 


ADVENTURE IN NARNIA 

Now, Asian will challenge 
you to show honor, courage, 
and courtesy during your 
own adventures in Narnia. 
But fear not — if you fail to 
do the Lion's bidding, just 
play again! And keep in 
mind Prince Rilian's words 
to Jill, Eustace, and Pud- 
dleglum the Marshwiggle: 

"Friends, when once a 
man is launched on 
such an adventure as 
this, he must bidfare- 
well to hopes andfears, 
otherwise death or de- 
liverance will both 
come too late to save 
his honor and reason. " 

Go now, and seek the adventure that 
Asian sends! 


USING THE GAMEBOOK 

This gamebook describes hazards, situations, and 
locations that may be encountered during your 
adventures. As you read the text sections, you will 
be given choices as to what actions you may take. 
What section you read will depend on the directions 
and whether the actions you attempt succeed or fail. 


THE GAMEBOOK 

Text sections are labeled with three-digit numbers 
(e.g.," 123"). Read each section only when told to do 
so. Often text sections will direct your "movement" 
in areas described by the text. In these cases, it can 
be very useful for you to keep track of what you 
encounter and where you go (i.e., you should record 
and map your path of travel). 

KEYS 

In this gamebook, you may gain information and 
take actions that may be important later on. So the 
text will sometimes instruct you to: Check Key xx 
("xx" is a number). When this occurs, check the 
appropriate box on the "Key Sheet" found at the be- 
ginning of the book. You should also record the 
information gained and note the text section num- 
ber on the line next to the box. You may copy or 
photocopy these sheets for your own use. 


PICKING A NUMBER 

Many times during your adventures you will need 
to pick a number (between 2 and 12). There are 
several ways for you to do this: 

1) If you have two six-sided dice, roll them. The 
result is the number which you have picked. 
(You can also roll one six-sided die twice and 
add the results.) or 

2) , Flip to a random page in the book and look at the 
small boxed number in the inside, bottom cor- 
ner of the page. This number is the number 
which you have picked, or 

3) Turn to the Random Number Table at the end of 
this gamebook, use a pencil (or finger or pen or 
similar object), close your eyes, and touch the 
Random Number Table with the pencil. The 
number touched is the number which you have 
picked. If your pencil falls on a line, try again. 

Whenever you are instructed to pick a number 
and add a "bonus", treat results of more than 12 as 
"12" and treat results of less than 2 as "2". 


YOUR CHARACTER 
CHOOSING A CHARACTER 

There are two ways to choose a character: 

1) You can use the completely created character 
provided on the opposite page. If you choose 
this option, read the "Background" sectionjust 
before the "Prologue", or 

2) You can create your own character using the 
blank Character Record and the simple charac- 
ter development system included in the next 
section of this book. 

TREASURES AND EQUIPMENT 

Whenever you acquire treasures and equipment, 
record them on your Character Record in the pro- 
vided spaces. Certain equipment may affect your 
abilities; the text will show you how. 

SKILL BONUSES 

For each skill on your Character Record, you 
have a Bonus that is used when you attempt certain 
actions. When the text instructs you to "add your 
bonus", it is referring to these Skill Bonuses. For an 
explanation of these skills refer to the Creating 
Your Own Character section. 

STARTING TO PLAY 

After reading the rules above, begin your adven- 
tures by reading the Prologue found after the rules 
section. From this point on, read sections as indi- 
cated by the text. 


CREATING YOUR OWN CHARACTER 

If you do not want to create your own character, 
use the pre-created character found in the front of 
this book. If you decide to create your own charac- 
ter, follow the directions given in this section. Keep 
track of your character on the blank Character 
Record found in the front of this book. It is advis- 
able to enter information in pencil so that it can be 
erased and updated. If necessary, you may copy or 
photocopy this Character Record for 7 our own use. 

As you go through this character creation proc- 
ess, refer to the pre-created character on the preced- 
ing page as an example. 


SKILLS 

The following "Skill Areas" affect your chance of 
undertaking a successful action during your adven- 
tures. 

1) Fighting Skill: This skill reflects your ability to 
fight. 

2) Trickery Skill: Use this skill when trying to 
move without being seen or heard (i.e., sneak- 
ing), trying to steal or take something, picking 
a lock, escaping from bonds, etc. 

3) Action Skill: Use this skill when directed to 
perform certain physical activities by the text, 
including: Running away, Swimming, Climb- 
ing, Tracking, Hunting, and Riding. 

4) Talking Skill: This skill reflects your ability to 
talk with and gain information from intelligent 
beings. 

5) Perception Skill: This skill reflects how much 
information you gather through observation 
and exploration. 

6) Inner Strength: Not really a skill, it is a repre- 
sentation of your goodness and your resistance 
to the forces of evil. During an adventure it may 
change due to your actions and reactions. 


SKILL BONUSES 

For each of these skills, you will have a Skill 
Bonus that is used when you attempt certain ac- 
tions. When the text instructs you to "add your 
bonus" it is referring to these Skill Bonuses. Keep 
in mind that these "bonuses" can be negative as well 
as positive. 

When you start your character, you have six "+1 
bonuses" to assign to your skills. 

You may assign more than one "+1 bonuses" to a 
given skill, but no more than three to any one skill. 
Thus, two "+1 bonuses" assigned to a skill will be 
a "+2 bonus", and three "+1 bonuses" will be a "+3 
bonus". Each of these bonuses should be recorded 
in the space next to the appropriate skill on your 
Character Record. 

If you do not assign any "+1 bonuses" to a skill, 
you must record a "-2 bonus" in that space. 

During play you may acquire equipment or inju- 
ries that may affect your bonuses. Record these 
modifications in the "Bonus" spaces. 


BACKGROUND 

(Read this section ifyou are using the P re-created Character.) 

You're in Mother's rose garden with Phoebe and little 
Stephen (your younger sister and brother), rolling hoops. It's 
a glorious afternoon; the roses are blooming, the sun shining, 
a breeze blowing, and it's your birthday! At teatime Mother 
will bring out sugar cookies, cherry tarts, butterscotch pud- 
ding, raspberry jello, and lemon ices, as well as a luscious 
plum cake covered with icing and candles. You lick your lips 
and turn to tickle Phoebe and Stephen. They both roll in 
helpless laughter on the short, soft grass until you stop. Still 
giggling, Phoebe taps your wrist and darts away shouting, 
"Jesamy, you're it!" You scramble to your feet, hoist Stephen 
up to ride piggyback, and chase after her. 

"I'll catch you long before the moon rises!" you call, feet 
pounding. 

Stephen squeals with glee and clutches your hair in his fists 
as you draw closer to your sister's flying heels. Faster and 
faster you run. Now you're close enough to touch her shoul- 
der. "Race you to the gate and back," you shout. 

Suddenly your vision goes black. You gasp and fumble in 
the darkness with nervous fingers. Where are you? What 
happened? 

Blankets, flannel sheets, a plump pillow and downy quilt 
meet your touch; and it all comes flooding back. Summer 
holidays are over, and you're at school once again. The rose 
garden and your birthday werejust a dream. But, oh, how you 
wish you hadn't woken up! 

Term-time is horrible! Just because this isn't your first time 
at boarding school (that was last term) doesn't make it any 
better. You miss Phoebe and Stephen (it's several years before 
they' 11 be old enough to leave home) and the games you played 
all summertogether. You miss Mother and the stories she used 
to tell you at bedtime. And, most of all, you miss Father: his 
deep, friendly voice; his wildly wonderful hugs; and the 
exciting trips to the zoo or the fair or the circus with him. 

Blinking back tears, you stare into the shadows of your 
dormitory room. If only your friend, Colin, would pay more 
attention to you. It's not that he doesn't like you (you know he 
does; you were best buddies last term), but everyone else 
seems to like him just as much as you do. With the crowd of 
boys and girls that gathers about him after class, it's hard to get 
him away to kick around a soccer ball with you, or watch the 
thrush whose nest is just outside your window, or read 
adventure stories together out of your favorite books. 

"Maybe I'm a pest," you murmur to the silence of the night. 
"Maybe he doesn't want to be pals this term after all." 

Then you remember the time he showed you his secret 
hideaway in an old, hollow oak tree in the woods behind the 
playing fields. There were two stumps for stools and a curi- 
ously carved walnut box with Colin's treasures in it: a robin's 
egg, a stone with a fish fossil, and a story he was writing. There 
were some apples and a bag of toffees, too; there were even a 
few old bottles from the cherry pop he sometimes drinks there. 
The bottles made it look like a smuggler's cave! Surely Colin 
wouldn't have shared his secret place with you unless you 
were special too. Or would he? 


LEAP OF THE LION 

by 

Curtis Norris 

PROLOGUE: 

It is a perfectly dreadful day, and you are in a foul mood. 
With the summer holidays over, and the new term beginning, 
there's nothing to look forward to for months. What's worse, 
the weather has taken a rather beastly turn in the past few days. 
Why this morning the fog rolled so thickly up the Thames it 
seemed to cover the entire city and even the schoolyard. 

You shouldn't be out on a day like today anyway. But after 
all, your very best friend in the whole school did leave you 
behind to go play charades with those two new girls, Lucy and 
Susan Pevensie. What a silly game and how nasty it was of him 
to go in the first place. (Actually, you were invited along, but 
you were certain you were just being humored.) 

That's why you are outside, alone on such a miserable day, 
pacing through the wet morning fog. As the air grows brisker, 
you begin to wish you had brought along a scarf and start back 
in the direction of the dormitory. But the fog grows strangely 
thicker. You cannot see much beyond the length of your arm. 
You have walked a good deal further than you think you 
should have, when you suddenly see a pale light through the 
mist. It must be a light in somebody's window. But you soon 
discover that it's only a street lantern. That's odd. You 
couldn't have wandered out of the schoolyard. Could you? 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 309. 

• Ifyou take another direction, turn to 129. 



100 

No sooner have the words left your mouth, than the door 
swings wide. Two beavers stand in the light. They seem 
surprised to see a child on their doorstep (especially one in' 
such odd clothing), but they usher you quickly into their 
house. Inside it is cozy and a cheerful fire blazes on the hearth. 
Before another word is said, you are seated at the low table in 
the center of the room. Mrs. Beaver serves you a bowl of 
asparagus soup and spreads a quilt over your lap. 

"I wish it could be more," she says, concerned. "But we're 
lucky to have any vegetables at all left over these days." 

Mr. Beaver, who has lit his big black pipe, looks you over 
and asks, "You're not from these parts, are you?" 

"No, sir," you say, looking up from your soup nervously. 
"Don't be afraid, child," he says. "There's no danger here. 
Ijust like to know about the people who sit at my table." 

Encouraged by their friendliness, you retell your entire 
adventure. Afteryou have finished, Mr. Beaverpuffs a while 
on his pipe, then says, "Mother, it seems I recall some ancient 
stories about children from other worlds. I think this child 
should be at the Gathering tonight." 

"I agree," says Mrs. Beaver stroking your hair. "But not on 
an empty stomach. Have some more soup!" 

You eagerly accept a second steaming bowl. Then the 
Beavers put out the lights and secure the house. All of you 
follow the orange glow of Mr. Beaver's pipe through the 
woods. After a short hike, Mrs. Beaver points to the top of a 
grassy hill where a fire burns and whispers, "The Gathering." 
Reaching the top, you discover many men and Talking Ani- 
mals. Mr. Beaver tells them your story, and they welcome you 
into the circle with warmth and a certain amount of awe (you 
don't know why). They have important matters to discuss 
amongst themselves, however, and for the moment you are 
left alone, wondering. Turn to 111. 



101 

"I don't know what to do," you sputter. "How can I search 

for a Lion I don't even know?" 

"Hmm, no, I don't blame you for being uncertain," Dakar 
mutters, stroking his beard. "How can you decide, when you 
know nothing about the nature of what we are doing?" 

"Perhaps I can help," says the centaur. "I would like to tell 
this youth a little something about who is at the heart of this 
matter. Perhaps then the child can decide." 

"Speak on," says the King. 

Quietly the centaur moves to the middle of the ring. His 
bearded head remains bowed for a moment before he goes on. 
"I am older than any here, and even I was very young when 
Asian was last seen in this land. It was not a great event, as 
those who do not know or believe in the Lion think of as great. " 



"But the time of the year was autumn, and the people of 
Narnia, the beasts and the folk, were gathered for the last 
festival before winter. We danced, drank cider, and ate apples 
as we had done for countless autumns before. Yet this time 
there was sadness mixed in with the merriment. No one could 
understand, but we all wished that Asian could be there." 

"The night had deepened with a hunter's moon sinking 
toward the horizon, when Asian finally appeared. He did not 
bound in, as he had times before, but padded amongst us 
quietly, with a gentle kiss for each. When he came to me, I 
rememberthinking him the most beautiful creature inNarnia. 
He was as large as a horse, larger, in fact than my father. His 
mane was full and soft, and he looked as ifhe could be defeated 
by nothing. And yet there was sorrow in his eyes. Those eyes 
seemed to look far beyond me and all that I thought I was into 
a time that was not the present. He kissed me then, and the 
sweet perfume of his breath filled my nostrils. Perhaps only 
that gave me the strength not to cry as he walked out of our 
gathering never to be seen again." 

"That was the first and last time that I stood in the presence 
of Asian. But the memory has always been with me, the sweet 
smell of his breath, the living gold of his mane, and the 
fathomless depth of his eyes. All my peace and all that is good 
in me flows from that event. I cannot express more clearly the 
specialness that belongs to the Lion. But, perhaps you can find 
reason enough in my tale to search for this Asian, who means 
so much to we Friends. Perhaps my child's heart of the past 
can speak to yours, here and now." 

With a silence (for silence is something, too) the centaur 
ends his tale. You stand motionless, and all about, the others 
are just as still, looking at you. Overhead, the stars are still, 
straining to hear you answer the unuttered question. 

• Ifyou decide to join the Friends, turn to 166. 

• Ifyou still want to return home, turn to 112. 



102 

"Notguilty,"you utter clearly. A profound silence follows. 

The Satyr looks up unbelievingly. Then a smile comes over 
his face and he shouts, "Praise the child! Justice is done!" 

A confused babble arises in the room. Some of the bolder 
beasts and people shout, "hurrah!" until others begin tojoin in. 
Soon almost everyone is giving joyous praise for your judg- 
ment. Happily, you look to Haadreh for his approval, but he 
shows not the slightest trace of it. Rather, he is shaking with 
rage. 

"Watchers!" he shouts, when he has finally found his voice. 
"This child has broken the Rules. Take it to the dungeon! And 
kill any who dare try to defend the heretic!" 

The guards are quick to act. The nearest of them advances, 
while others set their spears to repel any heroes from the 
crowd. There are many things you would like to tell Haadreh 
to his face right now, but you'd better try to escape the grasp 
of the Watchers or you'll land in the dungeon! Pick a number 
and add your Action bonus: 
'1/2-5, turn to 247. 

• If 6-10, turn to 233. 

• If 11-12, turn to204. 

103 

The Lion may be a terrible beast, as the Scribes, and 
professors, and Watchers of the Temple seem to think, but 
these Friends are much nicer than the Keepers of the Rules. "I 
want to help," you say. 

"Fine!" replies the King. "When we get back to our camp 
in the woods, I'll tell you more. But first we must escape from 
this prison, and for that you must get the key. Now rest until 
nightfalls!" Turn to 227. 



104 

"If you please, sir," you answer quietly, "I miss my home 
very much, and..." 

"Say no more, child," replies the King. "This is our respon- 
sibility. As soon as we get out of this prison, we'll see you get 
back to your own world. Now get some rest." 

Quietly, you retire to a lonely comer to curl up. As the 
others continue to whisper of their plans, you drift off to sleep. 
Seconds later a loud commotion brings you to your feet. All 
the others, men and beasts alike, are rushing through the open 
door into the corridor where young lords in cloth of gold greet 
them. Full ofjoy, you follow after. 

"Not that way, child," calls out a deep voice at your back. 
Turning, you see that it is a lion. 77j<?Lion! Behind him stands 
another open door with bright sunshine streaming through. 
"You wanted to return home. Your way lies through this door. 
Go now. And when you are ready to return, I shall be here. 
Farewell." 

With a sad nod, you walk past the golden Lion and into the 
schoolyard of your own world. The door shuts noiselessly 
behind, leaving only the hope ofreturning someday to the land 
of Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just turn to the Prologue and 
beginagain! 

105 

"Is that a spider on the wall?" you say, pointing across the 
corridor. 

"Spider?" The guard turns about (just as you had hoped). 

For a brief moment, the spare key on the back of the man's 
belt comes within reach, and you make a grab for it. Pick a 
number and add your Trickery bonus: 

• 1/2-4, turn to 107. 

• If 5-12, turn to 109. 



106 



Surely, there must be some better way of getting down 
inside the well. If only you could find it! Pick a number and 
addyour Perception bonus: 

• 7/2-4, turn to 183. 

• If 5-12, turn to 225. 



"I don't see a — Hey! What are you doing back there?" 

Locks and Limpets! He's caught you in the act! Now 
there's no choice, but to run away. And so it's off down the 
corridor with the guard close behind. As you fly down the 
passage you find yourself shouting, "Asian! Help me, Asian!" 
Suddenly the hall is filled with a deep, resounding roar that 
drops you to the stone floor, no, to the grassy lawn! You're 
back in the schoolyard. The fog has lifted and the red brick 
buildings awaityour return. Relieved and dismayed, you walk 
indoors, wishing for the day when you mightreturn to Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just turn to the Prologue and 
begin again! 



You are no warrior, but a lucky star hangs overhead. 
Swinging your arms wildly, they become tangled in the 
guards' bowstrings. The weapons are yanked from their 
hands, and the two Watchers soon run up the lane to get help. 
You don't wait, but speed into the safety of the woods. Pausing 
by a bush, you are startled by a voice. Turn to 254. 



107 



108 




109 

"I don't see any spider," the guard says, scratching his head. 

"Must have been a shadow," you smile and drag the gruel 
bucket into the cell. 

"Did you get the key?" asks the King eagerly. 

Triumphantly, you pull it from your pocket and display it 
with pride. 

"Well, done! Now we must await the signal from our 
Friends outside. Until then, let us strengthen ourselves on this 
gruel, and grant our little hero an extra helping!" 

The gruel tastes terrible, but the extra dollop is appreciated 
none-the-less (you're hungry!). You sit down to wait for the 
signal with a full stomach. At last, after hours of waiting, it 
comes; a single horn blast from somewhere outside. 

"This is it!" Daliar cries as everyone moves toward the 
door. "Come, child! Bring the key and open the door while the 
guards are distracted. There isn't a moment to lose." 

Trembling all over with excitement and fear, you push 
through the crowd with the key. It takes three tries, but at last 
the key slides into the lock and turns it easily. Once the door 
is open, the crowd sweeps you out and down the corridor and 
through the large copper door at the far end into the open air 
beyond, A fierce battle rages there with several lords fighting 
from horseback and many other animals coming to their aid. 
The prisoners join in, as do you, until it seems the world is full 
of arms and legs and teeth mingling in the fray. 

At first the guards inflict some terrible wounds on the 
Friends, but when the King and the other prisoners rally for 
battle, the Watchers soon turn tail and run howling up the hill. 
"Bravely fought, Friends!" cries Daliar to all. "Have we many 
losses?" 

"Shaketail has been wounded!" moans Grumblebelly with 
the Squirrel in his arms. 



"Only a light wound to the shoulder, sire," the Squirrel 
insists. "It's nothing, really." 

"Well, then. Take to the horses and let us ride back to the 
woodlands ! Come, child, you shall ride with me. Three cheers 
for the Friends of Asian!" 

Joining in on the cheers, you leap into the King's saddle to 
take a thrilling ride to his camp in the woods. Turn to 313. 




110 

As you creep as close to the hill as you dare, snatches of 
conversation reach your ears. 

"It is a fine night for a Gathering!" says one voice. 

"Here, Friend, let me help you with that," says another. 

These and like phrases drift down from the warm fire, 
mingled with soft laughter and whispers. They certainly do 
not sound like dangerous people! 

• If you approach the fire, turn to 296. 

• Ifyou return to the Lamp-post, turn to 122. 



111 

You are not left alone long, before two animals come to chat 
with you. One is a large squirrel with a bushy tail that twitches 
excitedly from time to time. His companion is a large brown 
bear, who appears rather sleepy. 

"Hello," chirps the squirrel. "My name is Shaketail, and 
this is Grumblebelly." The bear smiles warmly. "You looked 
rather lost, so we decided to see if there was anything we could 
to do to help." 

"Well," you reply, "you could tell me what this is all about, 
if you please." 

"Perhaps over dinner?" says the bear hopefully. 

"Youjust ate," snaps Shaketail. Then to you he says calmly, 
"There's not much time to explain, but we call ourselves the 
Friends, and we're all searching for someone very important." 

"Who?" you ask. 

"Asian the Lion," answers Grumblebelly in a lovely deep 
voice. 

"Yes," says the squirrel. "No one has seen him forages, and 
we must find him before it is too late. That's why we're all 
here. To make a plan. Why, even the King will be here!"" 

"Good heavens, a King!" you gasp. 

"Indeed! And he'll be very interested to meet you, child!" 

Just then, a centaur at the edge of the light puts a hand to his 
mouth and shouts, "The King approaches!" The thrilling 
sound of hoofbeats rumbles in the darkness beyond the glow 
of the fire. Turn to 255. 



112 

"I'm sorry," you mutter. "I just cannot do it." 

"We understand," says the King sadly. "This is not your 
world, and we are not your responsibility. If you are ready, 
then, we will escort you to the Lamp-post and wish you a safe 

journey home." 

Head bowed, you walk beside Daliar toward the lamp-post. 

The others, all the lords, ladies and Talking Animals of 
Narnia, follow quietly behind, friends you will never get to 
know. As you go, the King talks softly into the darkness. 
"When I was a boy," he says, "I used to dream of going to other 
worlds where people didn't dress or live the way I did. How 
wonderful the world would be, I thought, and how wonderful 

I would be in it..." 

The King's words bring a painful sadness to your throat. 
Then you notice something odd. Daliar's voice has been 
getting steadily fainter and farther away. With a start, you look 
up from the ground to see that the King has vanished along 
with the others and the woods and everything! You are back 
in your own schoolyard with the red brick buildings not more 
than three yards away. With a profound feeling of loss, you 
enter the dormitory to dream of the day when you might return 
to Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia. Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 



113 

Like a fox before the hounds, you nimbly outmaneuverthe 
clumsy Watchers and escape to the safety of the woods 
beyond. Still, you do not stop running until it is certain that the 
guards and the Scribes are far behind. For several futile hours, 
you search for the lamp-post that brought you here in the first 
place. The sun goes down, and it is not until hours later that the 
comforting glow of the lantern can be seen through the trees. 
Just then, however, a blazing fire appears on a nearby hill. 
Dark figures encircle the flames and voices moan faintly 
across the distance. The mystery beckons; but so does the 
lantern... and home. 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen to the voices, turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the figures, turn to 296. 




114 

"Oh, Norian!" you cry, grabbing onto the man's sleeve. 
"They're going to throw you in the dungeon. They think 
you're dangerous!" 

"Slowly, child," says Norian. "What are you talking about? 
Who's going to put me in the dungeon?" 

As clearly as possible you tell him everything about what 
you heard earlier. 



His expression grows very serious (and ratter sad) as you 
finish. "Dear me," he says quietly. "What could I have done 
wrong? Oh, well. Tomorrow will be time- enough to worry 
about that. Now you must be getting along. Peace be with you, 

child." 

• Ifyou leave Norian to face his fate alone, turn to 145. 

• Ifyou think Norian should come with you, turn to 118. 

115 

With a defiant shout, you jump out into the lane and rush at 
the two guards. The result is less than could have been wished 
for, however, as the menjust laugh saying, "Careful, little one! 
We don't want to hurt you." And, of course, they do not. But 
Rules are Rules. Turn to 175. 

116 

"Stop! Leave her alone!" you cry, glaring at the boys. 

While one of the boys grabs the mole's hands, the bully and 
his companions surround you. The bully looks you over. 
"Does there seem to be a problem here?" he sneers. 

Suddenly, your throat has gone dry, and it seems unlikely 
that the boys are going to listen to reason. Pick a number and 
add your Talking bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 200. 

• If 6-12, turn to 126. 

117 

"Listen," you say, pushing aside their peculiar questions, 

there's a lion in the woods!" 
This gets their attention; the Scribe who first spoke leans 

closer and asks "Are you a Friend of the Lion?" 

• Ifyou say yes, turn to 329. 

• Ifyou say no, turn to 269. 

• Ifyou are not sure, turn to 228. 



118 

"I'm not leaving you here to go to the dungeons," you say. 
"Come with me!" 

"But there are children here who need my guidance," 
Norian argues. 

"What good are you going to do them in prison? Can't you 
see that the Temple is bad? If you don't get out and tell people 
the truth, soon everyone will be in the dungeon. You don't 
want that, do you?" 

"Certainly not!" he admits, though obviously struggling 
with his choices. At last he says, "All right. Maybe itwoulddo 
me good to get out and see some of the world. I'll escort you 
to the lamp-post." 

"Good! Let's go!" 

Together, you creep through dusty, unused corridors and 
down empty stairwells. At last, you emerge into the fresh night 
air. There is very nearly an encounter with the guards at the 
base of the hill but you get by safely. With a light heart you 
walk at Norian's side toward the area known as Lantern 
Waste. When your feet are sore and your destination draws 
near and the lantern glows just ahead, a fire suddenly appears 
on the top of a nearby hill. Dark figures can be seen and their 
voices carry faintly across the distance. Mystery beckons, but 
so does the lantern.. .and home. Check Key 2. 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 335. 

• Ifyou listen to the people, turn to 323. 

• Ifyou approach the people, turn to 333. 

119 

"I've seen it!" you call out. 

All eyes turn on you. King Daliar, his own eyes open wide 
with surprise, says, "What was that? Did you speak, child?" 

"Yes, sire," you stutter, feeling very uncomfortable. "I said 
I've seen the lion. In the woods." 



A loud gasp rises from the crowd, and the light seems to 
grow brighter. Worse still, the King strides over to where you 
are standing and stares at you intently for what seems ages. 
Had he put you under a microscope and painted you blue, you 
could not feel more strange. At length, he strokes his beard and 
says, "You do not come from here, do you, child?" 

"Why, no," you answer. "At least, I do not think so. You 
see, I'm not too sure where I am either." 

At this, the King gives a small laugh, resting his hand on 
your shoulder warmly. "WhyNarnia, ofcourse! Oh, me! Isee 
this needs some explanation. How to begin? We Narnians find 
ourselves imprisoned because of something we failed to do 
towards that Lion you saw in the woodlands. We failed to love 
him with our whole hearts. We failed to love our neighbors as 
ourselves, as he commanded. We have done much that we 
ought not. And we have left much undone that we ought not. " 

"Asian the Lion is the creator of Narnia and King above all 
High Kings. Yet, the chill of hatred and fear and doubt can 
hold at bay even his power. Only the praise of a loving heart 
may act as an open door to him, the son of the Emperor- 
beyond-the-Sea. But our souls have grown cold and faithless. 
And the Lion has not roamed our land for a generation. In his 
absence, Haadreh the Wise moved in and built this Temple.," 

"And ruined everybody's lives!" adds Grumblebelly. 

"In any case," continues King Daliar, "those of us who still 
believe have vowed to search the land for the Lion and declare 
our faith that he might return. I must admit that I was becoming 
discouraged, but your presence here has given me new hope. 
Other children have come to Narnia from another world and 
done the land great service. And you! You say you have 
actually seen the Lion ! Child, there is no doubt in my mind that 
you are the hope of Narnia. You must help us!" 



"I will!" you cry, filled with a new strength. But as the 
cautious cheers of the crowd rise, you wonder if you have not 
made a very foolish mistake. Is the Lion what they say he is? 
Or is he a dangerous beast as others would have you believe? 

"Of course," says the King, restoring order, "we must still 
get out of this dungeon. Now, as we planned earlier, those 
Friends who are still free outside will be making an attack on 
the Temple tonight. We must have the dungeon door open by 
then, so that we can make full use of the distraction and escape. 
Whoever is assigned to get the gruel bucket this evening must 
try to get the key from the guard. Child, as the newest arrival, 
I'm afraid that job falls on you tonight. Will you do it?" 

Seeing no other choice (and eager to help), you declare, "I 
will. " Turn to 227. 

120 

Recklessly, you charge the guards. Pick a number and add 
your Fighting bonus: 

• If 2-9, turn to 221. 

• If 10-12, turn to 270. 




121 

The guards are not monsters; they're men. Certainly, they 
will listen to reason. If not, the dungeon may be your new 
home. Good luck! Pick a number and add your Talking 
bonus: 

• 7/2-6, turn to 243. 
•If 7-12, turn to 201. 



122 

It is with gladness that you walk to the lantern. But as you 
hug the warm iron and watch the fog settle in around it, 
sadness tempers the joy of returning home. Something very 
dear is slipping away until it seems all but lost, as the fog 
chickens and you know that your own world has returned. Now 
that you are back, you have no greater wish than to return to 
that land of wonder called Narnia. Slowly, you walk back to 
school to await the day when it will be yours to explore again. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
beginagain! 

123 

Turning away from the bonfire on the hill, you spy the 
silhouette of the lamp-post against the half moon. Turn to 122. 

124 

Not enough look in your leap! In your haste to escape you 
run right over Haadreh. Together, the two of you roll down the 
steps, stopping at the bottom with a loud thud. Then it's a 
furious unfolding of robes as Haadreh untangles himself 
angrily. 

"Watchers!" he sputters. "Take this beast away from me! 
Lock it in the dungeon, and see that it doesn't escape!" 

Too bruised to resist, you let the guards lead you out the 
door and to the dungeon. Turn to 175. 

125 

Best to stay with the men, you think to yourself, even if they 
are dressed strangely. Three of them are draped in red sheets 
gathered at the shoulder. The other four wear brown tunics and 
carry bows and spears. All of them are fair skinned, and rather 
handsome, though they have disturbing expressions on their 
faces. Turn to 134. 



126 

With as steady a nerve as possible, you look the bully in the 
eye and say, "Look here. Why don't you leave the mole alone? 
It's four against one and she's smaller than any of you. And 
she's a girl! How is it going to make you feel beating on such 
a poor creature? Beastly! That's how you'll feel. But if you 
want to go on acting foolish, than you might as well fight me 
too, because I won't stand by and watch it happen." 

The boys seem to consider attack, but suddenly they let the 
mole go and shuffle away in the din, looking sheepishly at 
their feet. The freckled-faced boy glares at you evilly, but 
dares not fight a battle on his own. After they have all left, you 
go over to the mole to make sure she is all right. Turn to 215. 

127 

"Please, don't," you whisper politely to the boy, but he 
rewards your courtesy with a painful pull of your hair. You 
find yourself shouting, "Leave me alone!" 

All heads in the classroom turn at this sudden outburst. The 
professor (who does not like to be interrupted) raises his 
eyebrows unimaginably high and says, "You wished to say 
something, child? How selfish of me to take up all the time 
with my own rambling nonsense. Of course, you should have 
a turn. I was just about to tell the class what the Golden Rule 
is. Why don't you do that for me?" 

Oh, bother! What is the use of travelling to another world 
(even it was an accident) just to go to a school that is worse 
than the one you left? 

• If his High-browness told you the Golden Rule 
(checked Key 1), turn to 248. 

• Otherwise: 

• Ifyou think you know the Golden Rule, turn to 267. 

• Ifyou do not know the Golden Rule, turn to 305. 



128 

Looking about in the rubble uncovers nothing that might be 
of use in finishing the tunnel. Still, you cannot go back. Not 
now. So, you fall to your knees and begin to dig with your 
hands. At first, it is very difficult to move the dirt and rocks 
aside, but then it becomes easier until it is no harder than 
building a sand castle. Suddenly a small hole opens up and 
light pours in. Pushing your body through the tiny opening, 
you come out in a thick cluster of bushes. Standing up, you are 
surprised and dismayed to discover that you have returned to 
your London schoolyard. Sadly, you wander into the dormi- 
tory to dream of the day when you might return to Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 




129 

Well, if you have gone in the wrong direction, the best thing 
to do would be to turn right round and head back to where you 
started. You follow what appear to be impressions your 
galoshes made in the moist grass, but before fifty yards have 
passed, another street lantern glimmers not ten feet ahead! 
Could it be the same one you saw before? 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 309. 

• Ifyou take another direction , turn to 257. 



130 

"Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," you 
answer. (Correctly, I might add, in spite of what others might 
say). 

The old man sits back in his chair quickly, upsetting his 
shiny hat. The Scribes shift nervously, and an excited murmur 
flutters through the stands. 

"What? What?" stammers the old man finally. "What did 
you say? What did that child say?" 

Before you can answer, the Head Scribe replies, "You see, 
your Profundity. That is just what I was talking about. The 
child is very confused." 

"Confused?" says the old man, looking at you more directly 
than is comfortable. "Bewitched is more like it. Tell me child, 
where did you learn to speak this insane substitute for the 
Golden Rule?" 

• Ifyou say you learned it at home, turn to 169. 

• Ifyou say you learned it at school, turn to 338. 

• Ifyou say you learned it at church, turn to 258. 

131 

As long as the guards don't turn around, you've made it 
safely. Oh! They've gone and done it! They've turned around! 
Before you can say "What's all this then?" the Watcher's have 
made some frightful faces and are chasing after you. Blindly, 
you flee into the woods, crying, "Asian! Asian, help me!" The 
sound of a distant roar reaches your ears . Past the next tree you 
can see daylight, and beyond the tree after that you can see 
your old schoolyard. Turning about, there is nothing but the 
red brick buildings of the school. A bit sadly, you go inside, 
wondering about the land called Narnia and the Lion called 
Asian. 

Why not return to Narnia? Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 



132 

Retracing your steps, you hope the hunters are still where 
you left them. What if you must wander alone in this forest for 
days? 

As tears gather under your eyelids, you stumble into a 
clearing among the pines. Three men, draped in red silk 
gathered at the shoulder, stand watching four others (who 
wear brown tunics and carry bows and spears). The four are 
examining the lion's trail. All of them are fair-skinned and 
rather handsome. Turn to 134. 

133 

Ducking under the professor's grasp, you dash out of the 
room, up the corridor toward the open door beyond. Just then, 
a man in brown robes steps out and brings you gently to a halt. 
"Slow down, child," he says. "What's your hurry?" 

"Oh, please help me," you manage to stammer. "I'm lost 
and have to get back home!" 

"I'll take care of that little rascal!" cries the professor 
coming up from behind. "Tried to vandalize my chambers!" 

"Now, now, professor," says the man in brown. "I'm sure 
things aren't as bad as they must seem. Let me have a talk with 
the child. If any harm was intended, then I'm sure we can think 
something out. Besides, don't you have a class to teach just 
now?" 

For a moment, the old manjust fumes and sputters (remind- 
ing you of an angry tea pot); then he says, "Very well. But let 
me warn you child. There are Rules here in the Temple, and 
you may be very sorry someday if you do not follow them." 

With those words, the professor turns in a swirl of purple 
robes, and marches angrily away. "Well, now," says the man 
in brown. "Come into my room and we will discuss this matter 
further." Turn to 171. 



134 

One of the men in red takes you gently by the arm and asks, 
"What are you doing here, child?" 
"I'm lost," you answer truthfully. 

The man smiles at his companions and says, "We are all 
lost, even those of us named Scribes of the Temple. But what 
has brought you to this clearing?" 

Goodness, you were hoping they could tell you that. "Who 
are you?" you reply. 

"Who are we, indeed? Who can say? But tell me, are you 
a Friend of the Lion?" 

• If you say yes, turn to 329. 

• Ifyou say no, turn to 269. 

• Ifyou are not sure, turn to 228. 




135 



Giving the problem considerable thought, you decide to try 
to scare the guards away. Slipping behind a bush, you give 
your best roar (a bit high for a lion, but deep enough for a 
child). The guards seem convinced that a lion is nearby. Only 
they don't run away! 



"The Lion!" shouts one, putting an arrow to his bow string. 

"At last we have him!" says the other, eagerly drawing his 
bow string all the way back to his right ear. 

This is not at all what you had hoped for! You spring away 
from the bush and speed down the narrow lane. One of the 
arrows cuts into the grass at your feet, while a second sparks 
off of a stone less than a yard ahead. Surely, all is lost, for how 
can the next arrow fail to miss? 

Just as you are certain death is at hand some very 
extraordinary things happen. Out of the dark ahead, some- 
where just out of sight, a silver spear like a bolt of lightning 
flies over your head. At the same time a high, piercing horn 
sounds triumphantly . Turning about, you find the guards have 
stopped in their tracks, the silver spear vibrating in the ground 
at their feet. The horn sounds a second time, and several horses 
gallop out of the darkness. Their riders are all young men, 
broad and handsome like the princes in your picture-books. 
They wear cloth of gold, fine spun hose, and boots inlaid with 
precious stones. One of them (a blonde youth with a beard) 
rides toward you and says, "If you are a Friend, hop on!" 

Without hesitation, you let the strong young man pull you 
onto his horse. Then its right about and a breathtaking charge 
into the dark embrace of night. As the black stallion races 
ahead, the young man says, "We are the Friends of Asian. We 
ride toward a Gathering. Great things are about to happen, 
child. Will you join us?" 

"Yes!" you shout into the wind. 

Onward and still onward the horse gallops, until a mighty 
blaze appears on top of a hill in the distance. Reigning in the 
horses by the light of the fire, you and the riders dismount to 
join a group of other lords and ladies (not to mention Talking 
Animals, of which there are several in attendance). 



"Come! See our new Friend!" call the riders, and soon you 
are the center of attention. All those terrible feelings of 
loneliness you've borne all day vanish with the warm greet- 
ings and hearty handshakes. Everyone wants to know your 
story, and for the next few moments all ears are yours. They 
are awed by your tale and show you a great deal of respect. So 
much respect, in fact, that you are left alone for awhile to gaze 
into the flames of the bonfire. Turn to 111. 

136 

Being lost is better than being locked away in some strange 
school any day! Gasping, you lunge for the woods. Pick a 
number and add your Action bonus: 

• 1/2-5, turn to 202. 

• If 6-12, turn to 113. 

137 

You crawl up the steep slope of the hill until you can clearly 
hear the voices of the figures concealed by the massive tree 
trunk. 

One of the voices is booming and deep. "Be you a Friend, 
Shaketail. Climb up to that crack in yonder tree. I do believe 
I can hear some honey bees in there." 

"I'll do nothing of the sort, Grumblebelly," comes another 
voice, higher and faster than the first. "I've had a longjourney 
getting here, as, no doubt, you have as well, and we're both 
going to need plenty of rest for when the others get here. So I 
suggest you forget about your ever-hungry stomach and get 
some rest." 

Had not so many odd things happened to you already today, 
you might have thought this an interesting conversation with 
persons of such curious name. As it is, though, you find only 
that you have become rather hungry. Perhaps Grumblebelly 
might share some of that honey! Turn to 230. 



138 

At last, the Temple comes into sight on top of a large hill in 
the distance. It is an immense building, made all the larger by 
its gaudy red and purple and green windows and countless 
spires. At first you think it's a magnificent spectacle with the 
sun shining from its copper roof, but the nearer you draw, the 
more it seems to be grossly out of place in this land of simple, 
hues and gentle contours. The Watchers escort you through a 
crowded (and a trifle smelly) market filled with sellers and 
their wares at the base of the hill, then up a long flight of stairs 
toward the main gates of the Temple. 

Inside, the building is even more lavishly decorated. Garish 
paintings of stern men in purple robes and elaborate carvings 
run amok along the walls and ceiling. Intricate oriental rugs 
spread haphazardly between the marble vases and pedestals 
on the floor. In all, the place is rather frightening, with a heavy, 
sinister feeling in its crowded rooms. 

"Where are you taking me?" you demand to know. 

"To the School," is all the Watcher says, leaving you to 
wonder what schools in this land are like and how long you 
will have to stay. Fortunately, an answer is soon to come, for 
that massive door coming up ahead could be no other than the 
entrance to the School. Turn to 319. 



139 

After several more miles of walking, the Temple finally 
comes into sight at the top of a large hill. It looks something 
like ajewel glittering in the distance with its flashing colors 
and countless spires. "Magnificent!" you think to yourself at 
first, but change your mind as the building draws nearer. 
Something about its red and purple and green windows and 
hundreds of domes and turrets makes it seem wholly out of 
place in this land of gentle hues and contours. 

While walking through the crowded market filled with 
sellers and their wares at the base of the hill, the Scribes stop 
and one says, "Well, here we suppose we are, child. Will you 
be going on to the School, or does some other divine errand 
demand your perplexed attention?" 

Not knowing of any other place to go, you declare, "I think 
I'd best go to school." Turn to 280. 

140 

In the next moment you do several things which will seem 
hardly possible when you think about it later, but fortunately 
there is no time to think at all. Throwing a satin cushion across 
the floor, you trip one of the Watchers, who falls into the 
fountain with a tremendous splash. Spinning rapidly, you pull 
the rug out from under the second Watcher and give the third 
a nasty bump on the head when you throw the fruit platter at 
him like a discus. Haadreh, in the meantime, has taken shelter 
behind one of the pillars, allowing you enough time to dash out 
the door and away. Turn to 163. 

141 

Something inside says that you are only being selfish. The 
mole does need your help, and right away. But how? 

• Ifyou try to reason with the boys, turn to 116. 

• Ifyou decide to fight the boys, turn to 185. 



142 

"Fleeing the Watchers?" echoes the little man, cocking his 
head to one side inquisitively (he seems to have forgotten his 
anger). "Well, come in, my little one! You shall enjoy sanctu- 
ary here in my humble quarters. My name is Haadreh. Come!" 

So that's what that funny word was. How quickly he can 
change moods! Still, he seems friendly enough, and you enter 
the grand chamber quietly. Before another word is exchanged 
Haadreh seats you upon a large green cushion beside the 
fountain. With his small, monkey-like hands he claps for a 
large platter of red grapes and a pitcher of apple juice. The 
servants appear as if from no where (they blended in with the 
decorated walls). 

As a third glass of juice is served, Haadreh leans closer, 
stroking his thin beard, and asks, "Now tell me, child. Why 
were you fleeing the Watchers?" 

Wiping your mouth on your sleeve (for there are no 
napkins) you begin to tell your story. Turn to 264. 

143 

There must be abetter way down than swinging in an old 
bucket! As you peer into the darkness, something takes shape 
out of the shadows. What is it? Why, it's a ladder! An iron 
ladder securely affixed to the side of the well! Recklessly, you 
swing the bucket back and forth across the gaping mouth of the 
well. On the third swing your fingers just miss the bars and on 
the fourth you've got it! 

After that, the ladder seems as safe as walking on a broad 
avenue, and you climb easily down into the damp darkness. 
It's a long descent; the star-filled opening above has shrunk to 
the size of a ten shilling piece when your hand discovers a hole 
in the side of the wall. Further exploration reveals that it is a 
tunnel of good size. Warily, you step inside. Turn to 290. 



144 

A second thought does nothing to change your mind. 
Norian would never feel at home in London. (And whatever 
would Mother and Father say if you brought him home!) He'll 
just have to stay in the Temple and face his problems alone. So, 
with one backward glance, you venture by yourself through 
the maze of corridors and stairwells that lead to the outside. 
Shutting the last door, you turn to take a lungful of the fresh 
air, but receive a terrible shock, instead. Five guards with 
lowered spears are waiting for you on the grass! 

"See!" says one. "I told you there was going to be trouble, 
but don't ask me how I knew. Come on, child. You've broken 
curfew, and the Rules say it's off to prison." 

Suddenly, you wish very much that Norian was along. Fear 
shakes your legs as the men lead the way back into the Temple. 
Somewhere in the far distance a lion roars. Turn to 175. 

145 

Wouldn't you like to reconsider? Pick a number and add 
your Inner Strength bonus: 

• 1/2-5, turn to 144. 

• 1/6-12, turn to 118. 



146 

After much hesitation, you finally decide on the red hat and 
put the pointy cone of felt upon your head. Though it must look 
as silly as it feels, no one laughs or takes any undue notice, and 
you are allowed to take a seat near the back of the class. 

The professor (whose glare, it seems, is a permanent part of 
his expression) returns to the front and assumes that deadly 
sort of posture teachers do when they are about to deliver a 
lecture of an especially dull nature. 

"Now then, class," he begins slowly, "today I wish to 
discuss with you a matter of great confusion, and, therefore, 
great importance. It is essential that you listen very closely, for 
what I am about to explain can save you a good deal of trouble 
in the future. The subject of this discussion is Asian the Lion." 

The lion again! Perhaps now everything will be cleared up 
about the strange beast and all the trouble he seems to have 
gotten you into. 

"Some of you," continues the professor, frowning in your 
direction, "have some unacceptable feelings concerning 
myths of this — creature — and the disreputable beast that 
prowls the land claiming to be him. Others of you have parents 
who have related stories from dim and ignorant times when 
this Lion is thought to have lived and worked wonders. 

"In those distant, unenlightened times it was easy for 
people to believe that a mere lion could have created this land. 
It was easy to believe that this Lion could have saved the land 
from evil and destruction by giving his own life, and that he 
rose again from the dead. Believing all of these absurd tales, 
people were wont to support the Lion blindly and follow his 
commands to the best of their ability. 



"But, of course, all this was silly. Nowhere in the universe 
can we find powers such as those the Lion claimed to possess. 
Look where you will and you shall never find an example of 
such fantastic magic. Why, only an insane person would say 
he could come back from the dead. And indeed that's what the 
Lion was. Only the pitiful ignorance of such times can explain 
why the people and beasts ever followed the mad Asian. 

"Today we know better. Since Haadreh the Wise has 
brought us the Temple, we have been freed from ignorance 
and superstition. Now the Rules guide our lives from day to 
day, from one moment to the next. At last, we are happy. Still, 
there is danger. An evil- minded Lion calling himself after that 
Asian of a best-forgotten time roams the land, trying to turn 
people against the Temple and drag the land back into its dark 
age of ignorance. That is why of all the thousands of Rules, one 
is put above all the rest and called Golden." 

Up to this point, you have been listening intently to the 
lecture, butnow you are faced with a distraction. Sitting on the 
stool to your right is a sturdy boy of about your age. Despite 
a rather friendly dash of freckles across his cheeks, his other 
features make him look mean, and his behavior proves this 
true. Now, just as the lecture is getting interesting, the bully 
pulls at your sleeve and pinches your arm. What a nuisance! 

• Ifyou suffer the pinches and listen further, turn to 304. 

• Ifyou decide to do something about the pest, turn to 127. 

147 

"Now then," says the King. "We have never been inside the 
Temple, and know of no easy way to the prison. However, 
there once were others among us who attempted to burrow in 
from the outside. The entrance of the tunnel is within the Great 
Well near the base of Temple How. We don't know if they 
ever finished their work for the men were all captured and put 
in the very prison which they were trying to invade!" 



"What if I can't get in?" you ask. 

"Then, of course, you are to come right back here. But let 
us not expect the worst, child. Once you do get in, then the 
other Friends will help you get back out, and we shall never be 
far away. Here, take this horn. The moment you get outside 
with the prisoners, blow it just as hard as you are able, and we 
shall ride in for the rescue. Understood?" 




"Yes, sir," you mumble, taking the horn. Then, after a 
number of tearful goodbyes and solemn handshakes, you steal 
quietly into the night. Footsore, you finally arrive at the base 
of Temple How. The many-tiered edifice looks frightfully like 
a monstrous birthday cake with its countless torches and sharp 
spires. Just ahead is the giant round wall of the Great Well. 

The well is not guarded, and the short wall is easily 
climbed. Inside, however, lurks a dark and seemingly endless 
drop. And you have no idea how to get down to the tunnel 
entrance! A stout rope holds a huge bucket, but perhaps 
climbing down the stones would be better. Check Key 3. 

• Ifyou use the rope, turn to 229. 

• Ifyou climb down the stones, turn to 197. 

• Ifyou want to lookfor another way, turn to 106. 



148 

Before you get far enough away to make a proper escape, 
one of the Scribes turns about and snaps, "Stay close, Friend 
of Asian. The court wouldn't appreciate our losing you." 

Oh, dear, there seems to be no way out! Only one thing 
cheers you: the guards return without the Mice. Turn to 236. 

149 

Butting your head into a Watcher's round stomach, you 
knock the wind out of him and turn to your next foe. A smart 
kick to the knee takes him out, while tossing yourjacket over 
yet a third's head defeats him. Grinning, you look around. 
Your grin fades. The rest of your side isn't doing so well! 

Then a few Friends rush from the woods and lend aid. 
Gladly, you notice that Shaketail and Grumblebelly are 
among them. Together, you manage to beat off the cowardly 
Watchers who run up the hill, wailing like dogs. Limping off 
into the woods, you head for the site of last night's Gathering. 
There, you discover that the Squirrel received some bad 
wounds to the shoulder. How do people and places get in such 
a state? Turn to 293. 

150 

"I guess I'll stay," you say with reluctance, since there 
doesn't seem to be any way to return home anyhow. 

"Fine," Norian replies cheerfully. "I'll take you on as my 
special pupil. That should help. Now then, there's one thing 
you could do for me." 

"Anything." 

"Return this book to the Dean of Enigma, please. His room 
is at the other end of the corridor. We'll plan your course of 
study afterward." 



Eager to return his kindness, you take the heavy, leather- 
bound tome and hurry out of the room. The blue and green 
carpet in the corridor runs up to a door with a giant question 
mark carved into its yellow wood. Thinking this must be the 
place, you prepare to knock, when the sounds of a serious 
conversation reach your ears from the other side. 

• Ifyou pause to listen, turn to 205. 

• Ifyou simply knock, turn to 316. 




151 

You've slipped! Back away from the wall you fall, tum- 
bling over and over again. Is this how Alice felt? How awful! 
What will it be like at the bottom! Suddenly there is a terrific 
jolt, and things go dark. No, they were dark before, so now 
they must be light. Yes, it's light out, and there are some 
familiar buildings here. Why, it's the schoolyard! You've re- 
turned home ! Picking yourself dazedly up off the ground, you 
wonder if Narnia will ever be yours to explore again. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 



152 

The professor (as he calls himself) grabs you painfully by 
the ear and marches you out of the room. 

"Luckily for you, " he says, "I have more important matters 
to attend to at the moment. So I am going to return you to the 
School for now. But don't think I shall forget about what you 
tried to pull on the old Professor! Before the day is out, you'll 
know how it pays to get yourself into trouble." 

You feel some (just some) relief at hearing that your 
punishment is to be delayed, but new fears creep into your 
heart at the professor's mention of School. What are schools 
like in this odd world? There was something in the way the old 
man smiled that spoke of a cruel, cold place — not school as 
you know it. With a shudderyou follow the professor and your 
mistreated ear back down the winding corridor. There, he 
turns you over to the grasp of a Watcher. Turn to 319. 

153 

With a hasty apology, you attempt to flee the professor. 
Pick a number and add your Action bonus: 

• 1/2-3, turn to224. 

• If 4-5, turn to 213. 

• If 6-12, turn to 133. 

154 

Oddly enough, it is very easy to sneak away from the 
preoccupied Scribes. Slipping into the woods, you wonder if 
they will even remember you had been there in the first place! 
Wandering aimlessly, you lose all sense of direction and soon 
become hopelessly lost. Just then, someone calls out from the 
nearby bushes. "Over here!" says the voice. 

It's the two Mice (Teekicheep and Peepileep), and they've 
eluded the Watchers ! They thank you profusely. Grateful for 
the company, you tell them the whole story of your adventure 
so far, and how you want very badly to go home. 



"Hmm...," says Teekicheep, thoughtfully. "I don't know if 
we can help, but one thing is certain. You must come to our 
Gathering tonight!" 

Peepileep agrees, and before you can find out anything 
further, they are leading you away by the hand. The sun 
eventually sets, and there is only the moon to see by. Then 
suddenly a great fire comes into view atop a grassy hill with 
a single tree growing on its crest. The Mice lead the way up the 
gentle slope at the top of which gathers a crowd of lords, 
ladies, pages, squires, and Talking Animals. They treat you 
with polite caution at first, until the Mice tell them of your 
adventures. Then they are very warm, indeed, and welcome 
you into their circle with a certain amount of awe. Still, it 
seems they have some important matters to discuss amongst 
themselves. So, for the moment you are left alone to drowse 
by the warm bonfire with a bit of bread and fresh clover honey 
that they give you for refreshment. Turn to 111. 

155 

A silly-looking pink marble donkey kicking up its heels at 
a butterfly provides excellent cover while you wait for the 
Scribes to continue down the main corridor. When they don't 
seem to notice you're missing at all, you step out from behind 
the statue and venture further down the passage. 

After passing several strange sculptures of tigers and gi- 
raffes and goats, you come to another passage that branches 
off to the right and to the left. Peering down both ways, you 
feel uncertain and further repelled by the unpleasantness of the 
place. It's like being lost in a circus in the dark. Which way 
should you go? 

• Ifyou wander down the right-hand passage, turn to 187. 

• Ifyou explore up the left-hand way, turn to 237. 



156 

Angrily, you throw the horn at the man, who looks less like 
a genie now that he is upset. Then you run as fast as you can 
to the other end of the corridor. Fortunately, he does not 
follow. Erase the check on Key 3. Turn to 291. 

157 

A smalt stone about the size and color of a bluebird's egg 
lies on the ground by your feet You throw it across the lane 
into the darkness, where it rustles the bushes and startles the 
guards. Neither one wants to investigate the noise alone (after 
all, it could be a bear) and they decide to go together. Once 
their backs are turned, you run through the opening and flee 
into the cover of night The first mile of freedom is wonderful, 
but soon the rough path underfoot becomes unbearable, and 
the night chill sets you to shivering. What's that little house 
nestled in a secluded hollow to your right? It's built low to the 
ground out of stout logs and the roof is thatched with long 
silvery grasses. A light shines through one of the windows, 
and you think of food and friends. Still, it may be dangerous 
to approach lonely homes in this land. 

• If you. want to peek in the window, turn to 302. 

• Ifyou knock on the door, turn to 251. 

• Ifyou pass by the house, turn to 340. 

158 

"I'm lost," you say, hoping to be let inside. But you are 
disappointed. 

First there is a sharp gasp from the other side of the door 
followed by some frightened mumbling. Then a bolt slides 
home and the light goes out inside. It's odd, b ut no amount of 
knocking or calling out can make them open up. Shivering, 
you leave the house and continue the search for the lamp-post 



After another hour of stumbling through the woods, the 
lantern glows softly ahead of you. You start to run all the way, 
when suddenly a fire appears on top of a nearby hill. Dark 
figures stand about the blaze, and voices carry faintly across 
the distance. Mystery beckons, but so does the lantern... and 
home. 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen to the people, turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the people, turn to 296. 

159 

"Thank you, but ..but.." you stutter, "but I really want to go 
home." 

"How dare you refuse the hospitality ofHaadreh the Wise!" 
shouts the little man, leaping to his feet "Home, you say? You 
have to go home? There is no home outside the Temple! But 
there's still room in the dungeon for an ungrateful wretch such 
as yourself! Watchers! Take this child away!" 

From out of nowhere, three men in brown tunics appearand 
advance, leaving you barely enough time to attempt escape. 
Picka number and addyour Action bonus: 

• If 2-6, turn to 271. 

• If 7-12, turn to 140. 

160 

After several moments of chilly waiting, the chance to 
sneak in presents itself. The copper doors open and a casual 
changing of the guard takes place (with much chit-chat 
amongst the bored Watchers). Without wasting a moment, 
you inch your way towards the door. Picka number and add 
your Trickery bonus: 
'If2-7,turntol31. 

• If8-12, turn to 256. 



161 

In a harsh world such as this one, it is best to think of 
yourself. Or is it? Running to the door to tell the guards, 
something makes you stop a moment and think. Pick a 
number and add your Inner Strength bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 170. 

• If 6-12, turn to 181. 

162 

Turning right about, you close your eyes for a moment. The 
garish paint and profusion of ornament is giving you a head- 
ache. Looking at the floor you retrace your steps, stopping 
before two doors on the left wall. One stands ajar. The other 
is tightly closed. 

"I've got to rest," you mutter. "If I stay here, the Watchers 
will discover me!" But which door leads to safety? 

• Ifyou try the open door, turn to 326. 

• Ifyou try the closed door, turn to 191. 

163 

As in a dream, you run breathlessly through the nightmar- 
ish passages. You pass horrible statues of two-headed mon- 
sters and gargoyles breathing fire in dark alcoves. You imag- 
ine guards at every corner. The pounding of footsteps seems 
to grow nearer behind you. 

At last (when it seems you can go no further and surrender 
seems the only sensible thing left to do), you round a corner 
and run straight into the arms of a guard. There's no doubt that 
it's a Watcher you've collided with. Nearly fainting with ex- 
haustion and fear, you sink to the floor. The man's strong 
hands hold you up, however, and his voice is gentle. 

"Good heavens, child. Where's the dragon?" he asks. 

"Dragon?" you repeat, opening your eyes with surprise. 
Now you can see that he is not at all dressed like a guard, but 
in a brown robe without any sort of weapon. 



"Yes, dragon," he says. "The way you were running, I 
fancied you must be fleeing some terrible monster." 

"Yes!" you gasp. "That is, no. There is no dragon, but the 
Watchers are after me. Oh, please, you've got to help me 
escape. I have to get home!" 

The man's features are pleasant and concerned. "This 
sounds serious. Quickly, now, come into my room so that we 
can discuss this further." 

Somewhat relieved, you follow the man through a nearby 
door. Beyond there is a small room with a bed on one wall and 
a writing desk opposite. Except for the confusion of orange 
and blue walls, the place is very tidy and holds a sense of 
peace. Turn to 171. 

164 

"Pardon me," you say. "I don't quite understand. Why 
should we shun the Lion? I know he is a little, well, frighten- 
ing, but not in a bad sort of way. He seemed the friendly sort." 

The professor looks as though he cannot believe what he is 
hearing. He leans closer and tilts his head to hear better. "Are 
you saying you are a Friend of the Lion?" 

Until somebody gives a good reason for not being the lion' s 
friend, you are determined to answer as truthfully as you can. 
"Why, yes, I guess I am." 

The professor nearly falls over. "I was warned about you, 
child! I suppose you want to cause a sensation with such 
ridiculous talk. Well, if it's attention you want, attention you 
shall have! Take off that hat and put on the green dunce cap." 

Without knowing exactly why, you do as you are told. The 
children laugh at the formless green cap, and the professor 
does nothing to stop them. "Now come, dunce," he says. "You 
know what happens next." 

Of course, you don't, but what is there to do? Turn to 222. 



165 

Smiling shyly, you let Haadreh approach. Then, as further 
praise sounds from all corners of the room, he takes you by the 
hand and leads you out the door, through the confusing maze 
of corridors. Many rooms and hallways pass by unnoticed 
while Haadreh chatters, and at length you arrive at his quar- 
ters. The room is immense, colorful, and filled with abundant 
decoration. Rugs, cushions, tapestries and vases sprawl across 
the marble floor and climb the paneled walls. Haadreh offers 
you a seat next to a fountain that splashes noisily in the center 
of the room. With a clap of his monkey-like hands, he has a 
servant bring in a platter of plump red grapes and aj ug of cold 
apple juice. You readily accept the refreshment and wonder 
what delights are next. Turn to 264. 

166 

A little thought, and you decide, "Yes, I will help!" 

"Hurray for the child ! " cheers Grumblebelly , and the entire 
gathering chimes in. 

The King claps you on the shoulders heartily, but soon he 
quiets everybody down. He clears his throat and goes on. 
"There is just one more matter of great consequence indeed. 
As you know, we Friends of Asian are considered oudaws in 
our own land. Many of us have been taken prisoner in the past 
few weeks and face death at the hands of Haadreh' s Watchers. 
Asian would agree that it is these brothers and sisters we must 
attend to first. Tonight, one of us will go to the Temple and try 
to find the prison to set the others free. Those of us who remain 
behind will cause a distraction to cover the escape and provide 
support in all cases. I would go myself, but those more 
stubborn and wiser than I have made it clear that my respon- 
sibility is to stay here and lead the search. It is my grave duty 
to ask for a volunteer for this perilous mission. Who among 
you will risk his life for the others?" 



Several hands go up at once. Everyone seems eager to 
accept the dangerous mission. You are wondering whether or 
not you should be volunteering as well, when the old centaur 
approaches the King and says, "Pardon me, sire. Something 
occurs to me that, but for the great importance of this mission, 
I would not have the heart to mention." 

"What is it?" asks the King. 

"Only this (and may my hooves split in two if any harm 
comes of my words): Of all of us, the child is the one least 
likely to be noticed in the Temple. We others are too familiar 
to the Watchers." 

At first, the King shakes his head, but gives in to the reason 
of the centaur's argument. "Will you do it?" 

• Ifyou accept the task, turn to 332. 

• Ifyou refuse the mission, turn to 168. 

167 

Why should you get mixed up in someone else's affairs? 
All you want to do is go back home. So you do nothing as the 
boys catch up to the helpless mole andball up their fists. 
Suddenly, a mighty lion leaps over the wall and into the yard. 
It is the lion you remember from your first moments in the 
forest. Now he seems so big and his angry visage so horrible 
to look upon that you are quite beside yourself with fear. 



The lion crouches before the boys (who have released the 
mole) and growls, "I am Asian! King above all High Kings! 
Harm the least of my children and you harm me!" The boy s fall 
on theirfaces in terror. Then the Lion turns his terrible gaze on 
you. "You failed to give this mole aid when she needed it most. ; 
You want to go home; I do not want you in my land as you are. 
So I am sending you back. Now. And you shall not witness the 
falling of this Temple nor the return of happiness to Narnia." 

Tears fill youreyes, and yourush toward the Lion to beg his 
forgiveness. But with your every step forward the Lion gets 
farther away. Soon, he is miles away from you, and at last 
vanishes altogether. You find yourself alone in the school- 
yard, your own schoolyard, back home. Sadly, you walk 
toward the buildings, hoping someday to return to Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
start over! 




168 

"Pardon me," you say meekly. "But I don't think I'm up to 

such a mission. I'm sorry." 

Disappointed mutterings pass through the gathering, but 
King Daliar raises his hand and says, "No! The child is right. 
This task is forNarnians. Indeed, I will not send a single one 
of us alone to face the forces of the Temple. Follow me, and 
we shall ride together!" 

• If Norian left the Temple with you (checked Key 2), 

turn to 263. 

• Otherwise, turn to 179. 



169 

"Home, sir," you answer timidly. 

"Home?" the old man echoes (a bad habit many adults seem 
to have). "By the spire, child, wherever do you come from?" 

A difficult question, to say the least! With an attentive 
rustle, the people in the stands lean forward (or rather upward) 
to hear your response. 

• Ifyou say you come from another world, turn to 328. 

• Ifyou say you don't know, turn to 199. 

170 

This is probablyjust a dream, anyhow. Best to get yourself 
out of it alive. Pulling yourself up to the bars in the door, you 
say, "Psst! Say there! Guard!" 

Looking about suspiciously, the guard ambles up and asks 
what it is you want. 

"The prisoners are planning to escape! Let me out!" 

With a sly wink, the guard fumbles for his key. When the 
doorfinallyopensacrack,youpushthrough.Only,itisn'tthe 
vaulted corridor that meets your gaze, but another darkened 
cell. 

A lion sits in the shadows and says, "Child, though you 
thought to escape a prison, you have laid the foundation to a 
deeper and colder dungeon than those you have left behind 
shall ever experience. Yet, you are young and need time to 
earn. Go home now and dojust that. Perhaps, someday, you 
will be ready to return to Narnia." 

With a click, the cell door opens to warm sunshine. Turning 
sadly, you walk back into your London schoolyard. 

Ifyou are ready to return to Narnia, go to the Prologue and 
again! 



171 

"My name is Norian," says the man after you have found a 
seat at the desk. "Why not tell me everything from the 
beginning, and I'll see what there is to be done for you." 

Slowly, you retell the events of the day from the strange fog 
by the street lantern at your schoolyard to your disastrous 
arrival atthe Temple. You expect Norian to disbelieve mostof 
the story (such has been your experience of adults before), but 
he listens politely and with an amazed interest to all you have 
to say. When you have finished, he pours you a cup of water 
from a red glass pitcher on the desk, then settles back on the 
bed to think. 

It is not until two glasses of water later that he rises to his 
feet and says, "Clearly, since this is not your home, you should 
not be forced to stay here, though I daresay you would be a 
welcome addition to our world. Now, the problem comes with 
getting you back. I must fully admit this is a problem which I 
have never confronted before. However, one idea does occur 
to me. Since it was the lantern that seemed to bring you here, 
perhaps it is the lantern that must take you back. At least it can 
do no harm to go there and try." 

"Will you go with me?" you ask hopefully. 

"Alas, child, I cannot. You see, I too have my place and my 
responsibilities. Many children here in the Temple also seek 
my guidance. But fear not. The lands betwixt here and the 
lantern are not dangerous. And if the attempt should fail, then 
you may always return to the Temple and find a friend in me." 

Sadly, you agree, and the two of you lay plans for your 
escape. Norian thinks it best to leave after sunset, still a couple 
of hours away. He passes the time by telling you of the world 
you have stumbled into. 



"This land," he begins, "is called Narnia. It has always had 
kings and queens, and though one still reigns, the true power 
now lies in the enlightened hands of the Temple and its leader, 
Haadreh the Wise. As you know, both people and Talking 
Beasts live in the land of Narnia." 

"Like the lion I met when I first arrived," you point out. 

"Well, yes," Norian says, frowning thoughtfully (what is it 
about the lion that makes people react so strangely?). 

Eventually the sun sets and it is time to leave the Temple. 
Norian cautiously leads the way down abandoned passages 
and at last to an unused wooden door. Outside, it is amazing 
how bright the stars in the sky are (they are actually closer to 
the ground than in your own world). Norian gives you the 
directions to the Lantern one more time then kneels down to 
give you a long hug. You return the embrace warmly, and bid 
him ateary good bye, before sliding off into the shadows. 

After an exhausting walk through the dark, bramble-filled 
woods, the lantern finally comes into view in the distance. At 
last,home isjust around the corner. Then suddenly a fire leaps 
to life on a nearby hill. Several dark figures stand around it, 
and their voices waft faintly across the distance. The mystery 
beckons, but so does the lantern. ..and home. 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen to the voices at a distance, turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the people, turn to 296. 



172 

But, what about Norian? "I must explain before I go," you 
mutter. 

The King continues, "Now then, we have never been inside 
the Temple, and know of no easy way to get inside. However, 
several moons ago -" 

"Excuse me," interrupts Norian, stepping into the light. " 1 
am a teacher of the Temple. At least, I was until now. Now my 
teachings are regarded as heretical by Haadreh. I am curious 
about Asian. And I would like to help." (You wink at your 
friend to show you support his courage.) 

"If you are a true Friend," replies Daliar, "then you are 
welcome. Pray, speak on." 

"There is a safe route to the prison through the inside of the 
Temple. You, child, could reach it without any problems as 
long as you followed my directions precisely." 

Startled at his sudden appearance, you still nod your head 
to let Norian know that you are paying the greatest attention. 

"Getting inside the Temple will be easy. Many children 
pass in and out during the day. Once inside the main hall, you 
must go down the first stairs you come to. At the bottom of the 
stairs is a room with two doors. You must go through the one 
with the blue yak's head painted on it. That door will lead you 
to a long corridor. Turn left into this corridor. At the end a man 
will ask you for the password, and you must answer 'Turkish 
Delight.' He will then let you pass to a much longer flight of 
stairs that lead to the underground prison. If and when you get 
the prisoners out of the cell, you have only to leave through the 
large copper door at the base of the hill . Remember: the blue 
door with the yak's head and Turkish Delight.' That path will 
take you past many dangerous places. A wrong turn could be 
disastrous." 



"Thank you, Norian," says the King. Seeing your appre- 
hension, he adds, "Do not worry, child. The prisoners will see 
you safely out of the Temple, and the rest of us will be waiting 
not far off to come to your aid. Take this horn. As soon you get 
back outside, blow it as hard as you are able, and we will ride 
in to take you all away to safety. Understood?" 

Uncertainly, you take the horn from the King. The adven- 
ture is swiftly assuming serious proportions. Do you remem- 
ber everything Norian said? Will you have forgotten every- 
thing by tomorrow? 

After a sleepless night,a subtle disguise of ashes is smeared 
on your face, and you set off for the Temple. Hours later, you 
are standing once again outside its huge front doors. Feeling 
a trifle foolish, and uncomfortably conspicuous, you enter the 
smoky shade of the inner hall. Inside you find two ebony 
staircases painted with white stripes. One goes up and the 
other down. What was it Norian said you were supposed to do 
now? Check Key 3. 

• If you go down the staircase, turn to 281. 

• If you go up, instead, turn to 299. 

173 

"You are a heretic spy!" cries the guard, drawing an ugly 
curved sword. 

With a gasp, you dash back up the corridor crying, "Asian! 
Help me, Asian!" As you turn the next comer, a distant roaring 
reaches your ears; there is a terrific jolt, and the next thing you 
know England and the schoolyard are around you. Relieved 
and dismayed, you go inside, to dream about returning some- 
day to the land of Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 



174 

The yew tree is rather lovely, you think, even if it is all 
black. Admiring the painting as you open the door, you fail to 
notice the little man sitting in the brocaded chamber beyond. 

"How dare you enter into the inner sanctum of Haadreh the 
Wise," he shouts (you notice him now!). "No child enters this 
room and lives to tell the tale. Come back here!" 

Of course, you have no intention of going back! As you flee 
theangry littleman,youfindyourselfshouting, "Asian! Asian 
help me!" A distant roar reaches your ears and what you find 
through the yew door is a big surprise. For you do not come out 
into the small triangular room, but into your own school yard! 
Bewildered, you walk into the familiar red brick buildings to 
wonder about a strange land called Narnia and the Lion called 
Asian. 

Why not return to Narnia? Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

175 

It's a rough tour of the Temple for those going to the 
dungeons. At length, however, you arrive at a long arched 
hallway with a heavy, barred, oak door in the right-hand wall. 
Expressionless, the guard opens it a crack and shoves you 
through. On the other side huddles a sad collection of prison- 
ers, men and animals, who look sadder still now that you're a 
prisoner too. 

Shuffling through the straw, you find a clear space near the 
wall. You think of having to spend the rest of your life a 
prisoner. But some sort of end must be near! Noticing your 
sadness, a large squirrel comes to your side with a crust of 
bread and says, "Don't be glum, little one. My name is 
Shaketail. We're all Friends here." 



"Thank you," you answer, taking the stale crust politely. 

"Besides," continues the squirrel, shaking his tail excit- 
edly, "do you see those others there?" 

Shaketail points to the center of the room where several 
men and animals have gathered around a huge stone slab that 
is broken in the middle. "Those are the Friends of Asian, and 
they are working on our escape right now! Won't you help?" 

Escape! It sounds like dangerous business to you. But, 
perhaps, there is another way out. If you were to warn the 
guards that the other prisoners were going to try to break out, 
theyjust might let you go. A slow second passes by, while you 
try to make up your mind how to act. 

• If you want to help the others try to escape, turn to 289. 

• Ifyou want to warn the guards, turn to 161. 

• Ifyou just want to be left alone, turn to 337. 

176 

Judging by the circumference of their bellies (very round, 
indeed!), you think there is a good chance of outrunning the 
guards. With a skip, you take to your heels. Pick a number and 
add your Action bonus: 
' If 2-5, turn to 210. 

• If 6-12, turn to 320. 

177 

The wind blows the cloud-lion's mane back from its 
majestic brow. You blink and the lion has blown away 
entirely. Turn to 451. 

178 

Walking to the man's side, you say, your voice trembling, 
"Please, sir, can you help me? I'm so lost." Turn to 171. 



179 

There does not appear to be any flaw in Haadreh's proposal, 
and you accept his offer gladly. Leaping to his tiny feet, he 
grasps your hands in his (rather painfully), and dances across 
the room, calling out servants from every corner. Within the 
blink of an eye, a long robe of yellow and pink silk is draped 
around your shoulders and a large blue turban is placed on 
(very nearly over) your head. 

It is a delight to be receiving so much attention, especially 
after the miserable morning spent alone in the fog, and you let 
Haadreh dance you onward into the banquet hall. It is a long, 
high room with painted marble pillars and a wooden floor set 
with smooth river stones. In a virtual fit of gaiety, Haadreh 
seats you at one end of an unbelievably long table, then skips 
his way down to the other end (nearly the distance of a good 
sized rugby field, you guess). After a rapid firing ofloud hand 
claps, the table is laid with a magnificent, if somewhat bizarre 
feast. Besides an entire mountain range of exotic nuts, berries 
and other fruits, there is a baked peacock with all its feathers 
still on, and a roast pig stuffed with larks wings. The servants 
also offer what look suspiciously like spiders dipped in honey 
and rolled in sugar, but you decline them politely. 

After what seems a lifetime of eating, two burly servants 
bring out the dessert. Between them on a large silver platter is 
the biggest tortoise shell you have ever seen in your life. Why, 
there must have been room enough for five normal tortoises 
inside! But now it is being used as a huge bowl, and is filled 
to the pearly brim with a quivering yellow custard. 

"Eat all you can!" Haadreh shouts down from his great 
distance at the other end of the table, and, of course, that'sjust 
what you had intended. "Then get some sleep. Tomorrow will 
be a very busy day." 



Haadreh leaves the room, and after you've swallowed as 
much custard as possible, the servants take you to bed. Lying 
in the dark on a cloud of quilted satin, your newfound euphoria 
suddenly seems to vanish. Uncomfortable thoughts threaten 
your sleep. Pick a number and add your Inner Strength 
bonus: 

• If 2-6, turn to 189. 

• If 7 -12, turn to 190. 


180 

You consider it best not to get involved, and look on as the 
Watchers lead the two Mice away at spear point. A nagging 
feeling of guilt follows you onward in your journey. The only 
thing that keeps you going is the thought that, perhaps, once 
you know more, you may be able to right the wrongs you have 
seen. Turn to 139. 

181 

How could you ruin the hopes of these friendly people? 
Clearly you cannot! Turning back to the Squirrel, you hear 
him repeat his question, "Will you help us?" Turn to 289. 



182 

A weak escape, child. So weak, in fact, that Haadreh takes 
your hand easily and mistakes your efforts for eagerness. 
"Patience, patience!" he laughs dryly. "We shall be free of this 
court soon enough. Now follow me." 

With a shrug, you accept the situation, and follow Haadreh 
out the door. As you walk through the confusion of corridors 
outside, he keeps up a steady stream of babble until you arrive 
at a large door with Haadreh's head carved on the front. Inside 
is a spacious room lavishly (if somewhat garishly) decorated. 
The floor smothers under a violent sea of multicolored rugs 
and cushions, while on the walls paintings fight with tapestries 
for space. 

A three tiered fountain splashes noisily in the center of the 
room; Haadreh bids you seat yourself next to it atop a precari- 
ous pile of pillows. Once settled, he claps his small hands 
loudly. Servants come out of nowhere, bringing grapes and 
cold applejuice. Gratefully, you accept the refreshments, and, 
settling back into the cushions, think it was not a bad idea after 
all to come along with Haadreh. Just then, with his eyes sharp 
and bright, he leans in close and commands, "Now then, child. 
Tell me your story." Turn to 264. 

183 

Straining your eyes, you scan the well for another way to 
descend. Alas, in this darkness an elephant could be sitting 
beside you without your realizing it. After a while, it becomes 
apparent that there are only two ways down. 

• Ifyou try the rope, turn to 229. 

• Ifyou attempt to climb down the side, turn to 197. 



184 

"He's a very odd bird, indeed," says one of the voices. 

Could they be talking about your friend? Just then another 
voice says, "I've always thought that Norian had some dan- 
gerous attitudes concerning the Lion. Why, just the other day 
it seemed he was coming out in the beast's defense! How do 
such confused people ever become teachers?" 

So they are talking about your friend, and such hateful 
things, too! 

"Yes," says a third voice, "but at least we'll be rid of him 
by tomorrow night. I've brought the matter before Haadreh, 
and he agrees that Norian is too dangerous to have walking 
about in daylight. The dungeon will soon be his home." 

How awful! Hurrying down the hall, you take the horrible 
news with you into the dormitory. The room is filled with 
bunks stacked twelve high. You must climb a precarious 
ladder to reach an empty bed, where it is a long wait until 
nightfall. The sun sets at last, however, and shortly thereafter 
the Watcher at the door calls your name. 

Norian is waiting in the hall. "I've figured out the best route 
away from the Temple. Listen closely." Following some 
simple directions, he adds, with a hug, "Peace be with you." 

• If you leave Norian now, turn to 253. 

• If there is something youfeel you must do first, turn to 114. 

185 

The idea is rather frightening, and you would just as soon 
not fight, but it doesn't look as though the boys are ready to 
listen to reason. So you ball up your fists and step up to the 
bullies angrily. Pick a number and addyour Fighting bonus: 

• If 2-6, turn to 232. 

• If 7-12, turn to 186. 



186 

Though they have the greater numbers, the bullies are by 
nature a cowardly lot. You, on the other hand, are filled with 
the strength of one who fights selflessly for another in the 
name of justice. The scuffle is furious and you bloody the 
freckle- faced boy's nose. That puts a swift end to the fray. As 
the bullies flee, you go over to check on the mole. Turn to 215. 

187 

Turning down the right hand corridor, you pass by tapes- 
tries woven with unicorns and maidens, and striped panels of 
gold embroidered threads. A few steps later, two doors come 
into view on the left hand wall. The nearest one is closed, while 
the other stands slightly ajar. Though another encounter with 
the adults of the Temple is not to be desired, standing exposed 
in the hallway is hazardous as well. You pause a moment 
beside an orange pedestal, wondering what to do. 

• Ifyou check the open door, turn to 326. 

• Ifyou check the closed door, turn to 191. 

188 

The man in brown leads you to a quiet chamber. "My name 
is Norian," he says. "Pray, tell me your misfortunes." 

Encouraged by his gentle understanding, you tell your tale, 
explaining all you can about your entry into this world in the 
terrible fog and what a beastly place you think it is. 

"Oh, but you're wrong," he says when you've finished. 
"Narnia is a lovely place, full of good people and animals. I 
know life in the Temple can be difficult, but that'sjust because 
you're not familiar with the Rules. As long as you are true to 
yourself, then there is no problem. I feel that there is a purpose 
behind most things, but if you think that you do not belong 
here, then I will help you to return home. Which shall it be?" 

• Ifyou decide to stay in Narnia, turn to 150. 

• Ifyou want to return home, turn to 208. 



189 

Your bothersome thoughts find you very nearly asleep and 
depart unnoticed to leave your rest undisturbed. Turn to 195. 

190 

As the events of the day pass haphazardly through your 
mind, some disturbing scenes return. Images of the less 
fortunate folk of Narnia present themselves in the dark. Their 
grim faces, as they work in the fields, stare out at you again. 
So many seemed far less than happy, especially the two little 
Mice who were trying to gather a little extra grain for their 
children. 

Suddenly, it doesn't seem quite right to be lying in such a 
large comfortable bed, warm and full of custard while others 
shiver at home with nothing. Haadreh has been very kind to 
you, but it appears he hasn't given much thought to his people 
even if he says he has). Obviously, you cannot stay on in the 
Temple, at least not like this. The question is, how should you 
leave? 

• Ifyou leave the Temple now in the dark, turn to 192. 

• Ifyou wait till morning to tell Haadreh, turn to 194. 



191 

A listen at the closed door reveals nothing about what waits 
beyond, nor is there a keyhole through which a rude peek 
might be taken. So, with a shrug, you try the knob. Unfortu- 
nately, it turns easily (you had rather been hoping it would be 
locked), and the door moves a trifle inward. With inheld 
breath, you listen for any disturbance on the other side, but 
hear nothing. After a moment, you push the door open wider, 
and survey the room beyond. 

It is a small chamber (though its green and yellow walls 
make it appear larger) with abed against one wall and a writing 
desk against the other. Other than that, it is completely empty. 
Or is it? 

"Aha!" cries a man in purple robes, leaping out from his 
hiding place behind the door. "Thought you would do the old 
Professor some mischief while he was out, did you? Put a frog 
between the sheets, perhaps, or spill the ink, eh? Well, this 
time I've caught you in the act, and you shan't escape 
punishment! We shall see what the Rules have to say about 
truant little beasts like yourself. Come here!" 

You've been discovered! Will you be captured as well? 

• Ifyou surrender to the Professor, turn to 152. 

• Ifyou attempt to escape his clutches, turn to 153. 



192 

With brave resolve (for the bed is so,warm and the floor so 
cold) you slide out from under the perfumed quilts and hastily 
put on your clothes. Using a quill and paper on the bedside 
table, you leave a note for Haadreh, thanking him for his 
hospitality. Then it's through the open window and a quiet 
j ourney homeward . 

It is only a guess, but you believe that if the street lantern 
can be found again, it might return you to your own world. 
Outside, the clear night sky is a marvel of bright stars (much 
brighter than here) that light the way. For a long while, you 
walk on in wonder; at last (when your feet are tired and sore), 
it seems you must be getting close to where the lantern stands. 
Looking about the darkened countryside, you suddenly see a 
fire come to life on top of around hill nearby. Several figures 
can be seen around the blaze, and their voices can just be 
caught floating across the distance between you. What a very 
curious thing to be happening at such a late hour! The mystery 
beckons, but so does the lantern and home. 

• Ifyou continue to searchfor the lantern, turn to 123. 

• Ifyou try to listen to the people from a distance, 
turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the people, turn to 296. 

193 

A proper distraction is what's needed here! A thrown stone, 
oerhaps. Or a bird call from behind a bush? Oh, well, I'm sure 
You'llthink of something! Pick a number and add your 
Trickery bonus: 

• If2-5, turn to 135. 

• If 6- 12, turn to 157. 



194 

Certainly, you cannot leave without first thanking Haadreh 
and saying good bye (besides the bed is just too cozy to leave 
right now). Hoping he'll understand, you roll over and drift off 
into perfumed sleep. The night lasts long and not even the rays 
of the morning sun are able to pry open your lazy eyelids. In 
fact, the servant at the door must pound (much to his embar- 
rassment) very loudly on his copper gong before you return to 
the world of the wakeful and get out of bed. 

Once all the clothes have been pulled on and the silk robe 
slid over them (don't forget the turban) you are escorted to a 
chamber modestly known as the breakfast room, (though it is 
large enough to seat an army and more decorated than a fir tree 
at Christmas). Haadreh is not there, so you dine alone on a 
large breakfast of turtle eggs, fish eyes, and goat's milk 
accompanied by the usual platter of fruit and nuts. 

Finally, the little man does arrive, looking a trifle rumpled 
from sleep; but he still manages smile a bit distantly, and asks 
if you are ready for the busy day ahead. 

"Actually," you stutter, "I need to talk to you about that." 

"Go on, my child," Haadreh says, slurping his goat's milk 
from a silver goblet. 

"Well," you stammer, "it's not that I'm not grateful for all 
you've done. I am very much. Only, well, I don't think I 
belong here. Especially when I think of the others who won't 
be eating a fine breakfast like I have this morning." 

"Nonsense!" laughs Haadreh. "They eatjust as well as their 
stations in life say they should. Look it up in the Rules!" 

You think this over for a moment, but it still doesn't make 
things right. "I must go home. Right away. I'm sorry." 

Haadreh stops in the middle of a loud slurp. A thick drop of 
milk runs down his beard as an angry look comes over his face. 



"Sorry?" he shouts. "You ungrateful little cur! How dare 
you refuse the house of Haadreh! If you're not with me, you're 
against me. There's no home outside the Temple, but there's 
still much room in its dungeons. Guards ! Take this louse away 
and see that it walks among the blessed no more!" 

Good heavens! Can you believe your ears? Can this be 
right? Indeed yes, for two strong men in brown tunics have 
already taken hold and are dragging you from the room. In the 
struggle your silk robe and turban fall away like the last of a 
pleasant dream turned nightmare. Turn to 175. 

195 

The night passes pleasantly with dreams of feast-laden 
tables and silken servants gliding about at your command. 
Only the sound of a copper gong at the bedroom door is able 
to dissolve the fairy palace and bring you back into the real 
world. But you do not regret having to climb out of bed and 
into your clothes, for there are the fine robes and the turban and 
the promise of unexpected delights ahead. 

After feasting alone on a breakfast of turtle eggs and small, 
salty fishes, you are taken to a quiet chamber to meet with 
Haadreh. The tiny man sits in an immense chair behind a table 
piled ponderously high with books. He is scribbling busily in 
one of them with an ostrich feather when the servant an- 
nounces your arrival. 

Haadreh stops his writing and says, "Good morning, child. 
We have plenty to do today, so sit down and we shall get 
started." Since there is only one chair in the room and Haadreh 
is sitting in it, you remain standing. Haadreh takes no notice 
of this and continues to speak. "As I told you last night, you are 
a very special sort of person. Very special, indeed, O, traveller 
between worlds. And it is obvious to me that you have come 
here for a very special purpose." 



"I have?" you say, thinking it might be true, but not quite 
wanting to believe it. 

"Of course. Never doubt the word of Haadreh the Wise! I 
have given the matter the benefit of my keen insight." Before 
you can interrupt, the little man goes on. "The life of a wise 
man is a continual journey. We are ever evolving to greater 
heights, leaving the lower realms behind us. I, too, am always 
improving my magnificence, and someday it will be my 
privilege to leave behind this world to ascend to still loftier 
realms. Yet this world cannot bear to lose the influence of my 
enlightened self. The Rules, of course, are eternal, and shall 
remain so after I have cast off this mortal shell, but Narnia will 
need someone to see that the Rules are adhered to. You, my 
fortunate mite, are that someone. You shall learn the Rules and 
ways of the Temple and carry on in my place after I am long 
gone. Come. We shall begin your instruction right away." 

And so your studies begin. Long hours are spent each day 
learning the endless Rules that are detailed in the heavy tomes. 
Some of them make no sense at all, and most of them seem 
rather silly. For example, there is one Rule that on Haadreh 
Day (which occurs on every full moon) people are required to 
stay indoors and leave a bit of something sweet on the stoop. 
It doesn't say, but you rather suspect Haadreh spends the day 
sneaking from doorstep to doorstep. 

Other Rules are rather frightening, and many of these have 
to do with the Lion called Asian. Absolutely everyone is 
required to hunt the Lion and report any sightings of the beast. 
There are also some especially gruesome Rules that apply to 
those who befriend or help the Lion in any way. What a 
monster this Lion must be to attract such cruel attention! 



After an exhausting week of study, Haadreh comes to the 
study to say, "Well, child, you have worked hard. Now we 
shall see what you have learned!" 

Taking your hand, he leads you to a long hall full of lords, 
ladies, and exotic animals unknown to England, (camels, 
emus, and many more you don't recognize), as well as a horde 
of Watchers. At one end is a high platform with two ornate 
chairs. Haadreh takes one (a very high one, indeed), and waves 
for you to take the other, lower seat. Whispering, he says, 
"Pay close attention, child." Then he shouts to the general as- 
sembly. "Be blessed, Narnians! Haadreh's court is now in 
session. Bring on the first case and marvel at the wisdom!" 

Two Watchers move forward up the center aisle with a 
miserable looking satyr held fast between them. In front of the 
platform, they meet a Scribe who says, "Your Benevolence, 
this Satyr is accused of the worst of crimes, namely, being a 
Friend of the Lion!" A many-throated gasp rises in the hall. 
"We caught him interfering with the Watchers' hunts, and he 
does not deny being a Friend. The case is clear!" 

Haadreh rises to his feet in the chair, and says, "Inferiors! 
Before judgment is passed, I have a surprise for you. Today, 
I would like to introduce my pupil and very special ward. And 
since I expect you to treat this child with every bit of respect 
due my superior self, I shall let the child pronounce this 
Satyr's guilt or innocence!" 

A weak cheer rises from the audience while Haadreh tugs 
you to your feet. "So, child, which is it? Guilty, or not guilty?" 

How should you answer? All eyes are on you, including the 
sad ones of the Satyr. 

• If you say the Satyr is guilty, turn to 295. 

• Ifyou say he is not guilty, turn to 102. 



196 

Whatever they're saying is their own business. Without 
stopping to listen in, you continue on to the dormitory. The 
room is filled from floor to ceiling with tiny bunks stacked 
twelve high. You climb a precarious ladder to reach an empty 
bed where it's a long wait until nightfall. The sun finally sets, 
however, and the Watcher at the door calls out your name. 

Norian is waiting in the corridor outside. "I've discovered 
how you can get out of the Temple safely, but there may be 
guards outside." He gives you specific directions on how to 
get out, then adds, "Peace be with you child, and be careful!" 

A warm hug is exchanged and then, alone, you must 
navigate the complex corridors and stairs that will take you 
safely outside the Temple. Norian's instructions were good 
ones, and before long the night air is filling your lungs and the 
stars can be seen shining brightly in the heavens. The hill 
seems unguarded, but when you sneak down to the bottom, 
you find several men with spears patrolling the narrow lanes 
of the marketplace. A careful examination shows a point of 
escape guarded by only two men with bows. Surely, some- 
how, you can get past them. 

• Ifyou try to sneak by the guards, turn to 193. 

• Ifyou try to fight your way by, turn to 212. 

• Ifyou think talking might work, turn to 121. 

197 

Perched on top of the wall, you take a deep breath and lower 
yourself into the well. Not very far down, the rocks become 
wet and slippery. Slimy moss grows on them as well, making 
matters worse. While searching for a handhold, you wonder if 
other children have ever found themselves in such a situation. 
What if you slip? Pick a number and add your Action bonus: 

• If 2-7, turn to 151. 

• 1/8-12, turn to 317. 



198 

"Splendid!" Haadreh declares when you say, "Yes." 

The rest of the day whirls by like a dream. Servants drape 
a silk robe around your shoulders and pile a heavy blue turban 
onto your head. A magnificent feast fills the lengthy evening, 
and when the time comes to sleep, you climb into a giant 
feather-bed covered by quilts scented with rose petals. To- 
morrow you start your new job in the Temple. Turn to 195. 




199 

After careful consideration, you have to admit to yourself 
that you do not exactly know how to answer, and shrug your 
shoulders to say as much. 

"So, the Lion's got your tongue, has he?" replies the old 
man to your silence. "Well, then, I guess we shall reach the end 
of this charade. You can return to the School before any more 
sense leaks out your ears than already has. The Watchers will 
take you there directly. Oh, and in case anyone asks, the 
Golden Rule is this: Shun the Lion and follow the Rules. Now 
off with you!" 

Of course, what the old man said was wrong (at least as far 
as you know the Golden Rule), but that doesn't keep you from 
being led to the Temple School by the Watchers. Will the 
confusion never cease? Check Key 1. Turn to 319. 



200 

Under the dark gaze of the bullies, you stutter, "I, well, I 
don't think you should pick on the mole. I mean, four against 
one isn't fair." 

"You're right," says the freckled leader, winking at his 
friends slyly. "Four against one isn't fair. But four against two 
sounds pretty square." 

Two?" you ask nervously. 

Two," echoes theboy. "The mole and you. That's two. Get 
'em boys!" 

Now you're really in the middle of things. Oh, well, there's 
nothing for it, but to do your best Pick a number and addyour 
Fighting bonus: 
*If2-5, turn to232. 
'1/6-12, turn to 186. 

201 

"Halt!" cries one of the guards as you approach out of the 
shadows. "Who goes there and what is your business?" 

"It's only me," you say. "I'm on my way home." 

"Sorry," says the guard. "No one is allowed to go in or out 
of the Temple after dark." 

"What am I to do then?" you ask. 

"Why, go back in, of course." 

"You just said no one can go into the Temple after dark!" 

This brings a confused look onto the guard's face. He turns 
to his companion for some advice and a whispered conference 
follows. In a few moments the first one says, "I guess you're 
right. We can't let you go in, so we'll have to leave you on your 
own. Go now, and please don't come back; my head hurts!" 

With a proud tilt of the head, you strut past the guards and 
into the darkness of the countryside. The plan now is to return 
to the lamp-post, but suddenly you are stopped by a voice out 
of the darkness. Turn to 254. 



202 

The Watchers have been especially trained to chase chil- 
dren, and have no problem catching you. Out of breath and 
hope, you go with them to the Temple. Turn to 278. 

203 

Looking over the hats very carefully gives no clue as to 
which one to choose. The professor starts tapping his foot and 
insists that you put one on right away. 

• Ifyou put on the red hat, turn to 146. 

• Ifyou put on the blue hat, turn to 297. 

• Ifyou put on the green hat, turn to 238. 

204 

"Over here, child! Jump!" cries the Satyr, nimbly applying 
his horns to the stomach of an advancing Watcher. 

With spear points at your back, you leap from the platform. 
All is mayhem on the floor, where the guards are frantically 
trying to control the excited crowd. From time to time, the 
Satyr can be seen struggling with a guard, as you draw nearer 
and nearer to his side. At last, his small, brown hand grabs 
yours and pulls you toward the door. Before long you are both 
outside and fleeing into the cover of the woods. 

When it seems safe enough to pause and catch some breath, 
the Satyr turns to you and says, "You are a true Friend, Child 
of Adam and Eve. Come, I must take you to the Gathering ! " 

You would like to ask the Satyr what he is talking about, but 
he has too many questions of his own at the moment Passing 
through the woods at a brisk pace, he has you tell everything 
about your adventure so far. The more you tell him, the more 
excited he becomes until he can contain himself no longer. 
"Child, you shall be an absolute blessing to the Gathering!" 



By this time the sun has set, and there is nothing but a half 
moon to light the way. Stumbling over roots and brambles, 
you walk and walk and walk. At last, a fire comes into view 
atop a hill. The Satyr leads the way to the crest where there are 
several humans and animals gathered around the blaze. The 
Gathering! Everyone looks at you with curiosity (and some 
with caution), but the Satyr is quick to tell your tale. Upon 
hearing that you come from another world, they welcome you 
into their circle. They seem very busy, however, and soon you 
are left to your own devices. Turn to 111. 




205 

Placing your ear to the dot of the question mark, you hear 
this curious conversation: 

"You say the child is different?" says one high voice. 

"Yes, your Intelligence," answers a deeper one. "And the 
difference may be a dangerous one. There is something very 
alien about the child. I daresay it's as if it came from another 
world altogether!" 

Good heavens! It almost sounds as if they were talking 
about you. Next the high voice says, "I want to see the child 
as soon as possible. I do believe it could be very useful to me, 
that is, to the Temple, heh, heh." 

Odd talk, indeed. With the book under one arm, you knock 
on the door, hoping to find out more. Turn to 316. 



206 

The hats cannot speak (otherwise, they would surely tell 
you which of them to put on), but the class may be able to give 
you some clue. Looking over the group of students, you find 
that the children near the front of the class are wearing blue 
hats, while those further back have on the pointy red ones. 
Nobody at all seems to have on a green hat. As you examine 
the class, the professor starts tapping his foot and insists that 
you put on one of the hats right away. 

• If you put on the red hat, turn to 146. 

• Ifyou put on the blue hat, turn to 297. 

• Ifyou put on the green hat, turn to 238. 

207 

The professor, followed by his giggling students, drags you 
to the center of the room. Upon seeing the green hat, others 
join the procession until a small army is in tow. At the room's 
center is a wooden platform with a tall stool. With the crowd 
gathering around it, the professor sits you atop the stool, and 
announces, "Behold! What you see before you is no ordinary 
dunce. This child did not come to wear the hat of green through 
the usual slip of the tongue or forgotten Rule. No! This child 
chose to become the dunce and seems to be proud of it. Let the 
Rite of Humiliation be performed, and may we all learn 
through the child's mistake!" Turn to 220. 



208 

"I'm sure Narnia is a good place," you begin, "but I've had 
a beastly time of things ever since I arrived. If there's any 
chance at all of my returning home, then I must at least try." 

"And I shall do my best to see you succeed," assures 
Norian. "Mind you, I am not at all well versed in such matters 
as travelling to other worlds, but something does occur to me. 
If it was the lamp-post that brought you here, then the lamp- 
post must take you back." 

"Yes. I suppose that might work," you agree. 

"Good, then all we must do is get you out of the Temple. I 
will call for you tonight on some pretext to get you out of the 
sleeping quarters. Sneaking past the guards may be more 
difficult, but perhaps I can think of something. In the mean- 
time, go to the dormitory and wait for me to call." 

Quietly, you leave the room and wander through the maze 
of colorful corridors toward the dormitory. Along the way, 
you pass a door that is partially open. Voices come from the 
other side and you are positive you heard Norian's name. 
Curious, you consider stopping to listen. 

• Ifyou listen to the voices, turn to 184. 

• Ifyou continue on to the dormitory, turn to 196. 



209 

You decide to do as the extraordinary lion has asked and 
follow him into the woods. He is very fast, however, and he 
soon leaves you far behind. Out of breath, you are forced to 
stop, more lost than ever, and wonder how you can possibly 
find the lion again. Then, looking down at the ground, you see 
a spot of blood. It could be from the wound in the lion's 
shoulder and might lead you to where he is; but he must be 
miles away by now. And what good would it do to find him, 
anyhow (even if he is a Talking Lion)? 

• Ifyou return to the men, turn to 132. 

• Ifyou want to follow the blood trail, pick a number 
and add your Perception bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 325. 

• If 6-12, turn to 330. 

210 

Goodness! They are much faster than you thought! Holding 
you securely in their hairy arms, they lead the way back up 
Temple How. Turn to 175. 

211 

It seems you are going to reach the safety of the shadows 
when the strong hand of one of the Watchers grabs you by the 
shoulder. He says nothing, but one of the Scribes mutters as 
though to himself, "Mustn't lag behind!" Sighing deeply, you 
let the Watcher lead you onward. Turn to 259. 

212 

It takes a brave soul to confront two guards with no 
weapons other than your two young fists! May Asian protect 
you! Pick a number and add your Fighting bonus: 

• If 2-6, turn to 115. 

• If 7-12, turn to 262. 



213 

"Thought you could outrun the old Professor, eh?" the man 
cackles as he grabs you by the collar. "Well, there's some 
energy left in me yet; enough to take care of a young truant 
such as yourself, anyhow. Now then, I'll have no more of your 
tricks. It's back to the School with you!" 

With no further allowance for protest, you are hustled 
forward, down a maze of corridors, towards the School. What 
will it be like? If the Professor is any indication, you are not 
at all sure it will be pleasant. In any case, it will not be long 
before everything is revealed, for that large, forboding door 
ahead could be nothing but the entrance to the School. There, 
the Professor turns you over to the firm grasp of a stern 
Watcher. Turn to 319. 

214 

You stand first on one leg and then the other, waiting for the 
Watchers to return from their hunt. After what seems like an 
eternity, they march back through the fields with red faces and 
panting breath, but without the Mice. (At least your plea did 
that much!) The Watchers glare at you, and the Head Scribe 
takes your arm and shakes you. 

"Don't you know the Rules, child?" he hisses in your ear. 
"No, don't answer me. Obviously, you do not. It'll be School 
for you when we get to Temple How!" 

Releasing your arm to the grasp of a Watcher, he stalks 
ahead of you. Turn to 278. 



215 

"I'm all right," says the mole (her name is Furshine) with 
a near-sighted look of appreciation. Together you wander 
slowly back toward the animal quarter. Furshine asks many 
questions and soon knows everything about you and your 
curioussituation. 

At the line between the two quarters, she stops a moment, 
deep in thought. Then she brightens and with wide eyes (by 
mole standards) exclaims, "I can help you! I can dig a tunnel 
underthe wall of the yard andyoucan leave when it gets dark! " 

"Oh, but you'll get into trouble," you protest. 

"That's my affair," Furshine replies. "Besides, I think I'd 
like to return home to my parents, too." 

With everything settled, you separate to await nightfall. 
When darkness does come, you sneak out into the yard and 
meet the mole by the wall." The tunnel is abitclose," she says, 
"but it's good, clean dirt." It's a quick crawl underground, then 
up and out on the other side. "My parents live south of here," 
states Furshine. "The lamp-post you're looking for is to the 
west. I wish you weren't going, but I hope you make itjust the 
same. Good bye!" 

One last hug is all either of you can bear. Then you part, 
friends forever. After hours of hiking alone through the 
darkened landscape, the lamp-post can finally be seen in the 
distance. Home seems to bejust around the corner, when a fire 
appears suddenly at the horizon on a nearby hilltop. Several 
shadowy figures stand around the fire, and the sound of their 
voices drifts toward you. Mystery beckons, but so does the 
lamp-post.. .and home. 

• Ifyou go to the lamp-post, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen to the people from a distance, turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the people, turn to 296. 



216 

Certainly you knew it once, but with the old man staring at 
you that way and everyone awaiting an answer, the Golden 
Rule leaps right out of your mind. At last, you have to say, "I 
don't know." 

Upon hearing this, the old man sits back with a look of 
disgust upon his wrinkled face. Then he turns to the Head 
Scribe and says, "No wonder this child is confused. It has 
obviously been neglected .by those tottering tutors in the 
School. See that it is returned at once and taught right this 
time!" 

"Please, your High-browness," says the Scribe, "do not be 
too hard on the Teachers. For, indeed, what can anyone truly 
know, and, therefore, truly teach? Is not Truth as elusive as a 
breeze in a tempest? Is not -" 

"Enough!" rasps the old man. "I've made my judgement. 
Now see that it is carried out. Oh, and child. Should your 
teachers fail to teach you the Golden Rule again, it is this: Shun 
the Lion and follow the Rules. Good bye." 

In an instant, you are turned about and marched back down 
the stairs. As you pass out of the curious chamber, the Golden 
Rule you were trying to remember comes back to you: Do unto 
others as you would have them do unto you. But that isn't what 
the old man said, was it? What afunny world. Deep in thought, 
you folio w a Watcher to the School. Check Key 1 . Turn to 319. 



217 

"I come from another world," you answer truthfully. 

Haadrehs eyes grow wide with excited interest. "How 
wonderful," he chirps. "How absolutely wonderful. You must 
have great powers to have travelled such a long way. And there 
must be a special purpose behind all of this. Yes! I believe you 
were meant to join me here in the Temple and help to rule the 
land. Why, I can offer you everything you have ever dreamed 
of. Beautiful robes like mine, soft beds to sleep in, foods from 
the furthest reaches of the universe. Will you join me?" 

Something awful lights Haadreh's tiny eyes, but his offer 
is very tempting. 

• If you accept Haadreh's offer, turn to 198. 

• If you reject his offer, turn to 242. 

218 

You certainly do not want to go on a lion hunt, so decide not 
to mention the beast at all. Besides, there are more important 
matters to attend to, like where you are, and how are you ever 
going to get back home? The men have begun to gather up 
their things, ready to move on, when the Scribe who first spoke 
says, "If your path lies along ours, child, then you are welcome 
to join us." 

"Why not?" you ask yourself. And there seems to be no 
good answer. Turn to 334. 



219 

"But before we can continue in our quest," says the King, 
"we must free ourselves from this prison. As you know, those 
Friends who are still outside, shall mount an attack on the 
Temple this very night. We must have the dungeon door open 
by the time they arrive in order that we may escape during the 
distraction. This means that whoever has thejob of getting the 
gruel bucket this evening must get the key from the guard." 

"That would be the child, sire," chirrups Shaketail, much to 
your surprise. 

"Child?" says Daliar, peering across at you. "Why, yes. 
You're new here. In fact... you're not from here at all, are 
you?" 

"No, sir," you tremble. "I -I come from another world." 

Everyone gasps with surprise, but the King says, "Aha! I 
thought so! This is a good sign. You are not the first, child. 
Others like you have come before, and they've always done 
this land of Narnia great service. Child, I will be brief: Narnia 
is in terrible danger. Asian the Lion, creator and King above 
all High Kings, no longer roams Narnia. The chill of our own 
doubting and faithless hearts bars him from our land and our 
lives. In his absence,Haadreh the Exile moved in, built this 
Temple, and created the abominable Rules that say nothing of 
honour and courtesy and love." 

The King pauses long enough for you to say, "Heavens!" 

"Now, before it is too late, we must find the Lion and 
declare our faith to him. Perhaps then he can return life to 
Narnia and rid us of Haadreh the Unbearable. This is what I 
hope, child. And I think you arrived here to help us in our 
search. I think that if anyone can, you can find the Lion. Will 
you help us?" 

• Ifyou want to help, turn to 103. 

• Ifyou just want to go home, turn to 104. 



220 

The professor steps down into the cheering crowd, and the 
Rite begins. It starts with a terrible bout of name-calling 
followed by a barrage of paperwads and bits of rotten food 
(which the meaner individuals must have carried around for 
just such an occasion). You begin to cry, but the more you 
weep, the more the crowd laughs. 

What a horrible land this is! You wish you had never 
arrived and hope that it will all be over soon. Then a professor 
in brown robes rushes up onto the platform. "Stop!" he says. 
"Let us not shame ourselves more than we shame this child!" 

"Down from there!" shouts a green-robed professor. 
"These are the Rules!" 

The man in brown puts his arm protectively around you and 
answers, "The Rules say that a dunce may be claimed by any 
professor desiring his service. I claim this one." 

Angry stares are shot at him, but it seems no one can argue 
against him, and the crowd slowly disperses. Though he has 
just saved you from the Rite, you are not sure the service he has 
claimed you for will be any better. Trembling, you say, 
"Please, sir. I'm lost." 

"Come with me," he replies, as he gently wipes away some 
smeared fruit from your clothing. Turn to 188. 



221 

These guards (a grumpy lot) do not find your hopeless 
attack very amusing. Wielding their spears, they snarl and 
give chase. Fleeing into the safety of the woods, you find 
yourself crying, "Asian! Asian help me!" To your surprise, a 
terrific roar fills the air. To your even greater surprise you run 
out of the dark woods and into your lighted schoolyard. 
Turning about, the forest is gone, replaced by the red brick 
buildings ofyour school. Sadly, you wanderinside, your head 
full of questions about the wonderful land called Narnia and 
the mysterious Lion called Asian. 

Why not return to Narnia? Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

222 

The professor, followed by his giggling students, drags you 
to the center of the room. Upon seeing the green hat, others 
join the procession until a small army is in tow. At the center 
of the room, a tall stool rests on a wooden platform. With the 
crowd gathering around it, the professor sits you atop the 
rickety stool and commands, "Let the Rite of Humiliation be 
performed!" Turn to 220. 

223 

The interior of the Temple is no less gaudy than its exterior. 
Elaborate carvings of cherubs tangled in leafy vines are 
draped around brightly painted columns that support the 
ceiling. And what a ceiling ! It almost makes you dizzy to look 
up at the murals of gods and angels dancing amid the heavens. 
You pass through one cluttered room after another, down long 
unlit passageways filled with statuary, paintings, and the faint 
smell of woodsmoke. 

But where are the Scribes taking you, and why? You fear 
the worst. Their faces have that adult look you've seen before. 



Some sort of punishment (at the very least a scolding) 
awaits you and you are wise enough in the ways of the world 
to know that your ignorance of the crime will not prevent it 
from happening. 

But why should you take a scolding at all? If they won't tell 
you what you've done (and they won't), then they have no 
right to keep you. Besides, they could be very bad men 
themselves without any sense of what's right or wrong. Of 
course, they do have the Watchers along with them, and that's 
a very strong argument for not misbehaving. However, 
they've all become rather inattentive since you entered the 
Temple. Perhaps you could sneak away down a side passage? 

• If you sneak away down the next side passage, 
turn to 235. 

• Ifyou continue along with the Scribes, turn to 259. 



224 

You duck easily under the professor's outstretched arms 
and run back up the corridor. Upon reaching the wider passage 
to the left, you make a quick turn and run directly into a man 
in a brown tunic. Oh, no, it's one of the Watchers! Without a 
word (but a firm hold on your arm), the grim man leads you 
back to the Scribes who continue forward as though you had 
never escaped them. Turn to 259. 

225 

Your eyes scan the well again and again without result. It 
seems that there are only two ways down: either in the bucket, 
or down the rocky wall. But wait! What's that shape in the 
darkness? Why, it's a ladder, an iron ladder fixed securely into 
the side of the wall. How silly to have missed it! 

Carefully, one rung at a time, you descend into the dark 
throat of the well. The bars are cold and wet. Could they be 
rusty? Let's hope not! The opening above becomes increas- 
ingly smaller. You imagine you must have reached some- 
where very close to the center of the earth, when all of a sudden 
your hand pushes against nothingness. Further investigation, 
reveals the nothingness to be part of a good sized tunnel. It 
must be the one Daliar was talking about, and you have found 
it! Cautiously, you step inside. Turn to 290. 

226 

It only takes a moment to realize that greater Rules than the 
ones in Haadreh's books are involved here, rules that cannot 
be written down and may only be found in a strong heart. No 
stretch of the imagination can convince you that the friendly 
Satyr is guilty of anything. Your duty is clear. Turn to 102. 



227 

After several hours of tense waiting in the silence of the 
cell, the guard appears at the door arid calls out, "Gruel!" 

With every eye on your back, you walk slowly across the 
room. The door opens a crack allowing you to exit out into the 
corridor beyond. On the floor stands a large wooden bucket 
filled to the brim with a thin, green gruel. Looking nervously 
at the spare key on the back of the guard's belt, you suddenly 
notice something else, something you wish you hadn't. A 
wind blows through the large copper door standing wide open 
at the end of the corridor. Beyond it is the fresh outdoors with 
enough dark cover to hide an army. Why, a quick child could 
be out that door before anyone noticed! 

• Ifyou run out the door, turn to 298. 

• Ifyou try to get the key, turn to 105. 

228 

"Gosh! I don't know," you tell the Scribe "What do you 
mean?" 

"What do I mean?" he gasps, his eyes wide. "By the spire, 
child, haven't you learned your Rules? What do they teach 
children these days?" He exchanges exasperated glances with 
the other Scribes before saying, "Such a silly child should 
never be allowed outside. No, you had best return to the 
Temple and learn your verses more thoroughly. What do I 
mean, indeed. Why, I've never heard the likes of it! You two 
Watchers, there, take this child back to the Temple for good 
keeping!" 

The men in brown tunics approach, and you realize that 
there remain scant seconds before they have you in their grasp. 

• Ifyou go along with them, turn to 278. 

• Ifyou want to run away, turn to 136. 



229 

The thick rope dangles far out in the very center of the well. 
Only a sickening leap into the air will let you reach it! Can you 
do it? Pick a number and add you Action bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 286. 

• If 6-12, turn to 282. 

230 

Walking around to the far side of the tree on the knoll, you 
are surprised to find a huge, brown bear and large gray squirrel 
talking to each other. They, too, seem rather startled to find a 
child sneaking up on them. 

"What's this," chatters the squirrel. 

"A child, I think." answers the bear, slowly. 

"I can see that, but who is it, and what's it doing here?" 

The bear is just thinking up a good reply when you interrupt 
by saying, "Please, have you seen the lion?" 

At this their eyes open wide. "Have you?" asks the squirrel 
cautiously. 

"Why, yes," you answer. "I was just following him along 
this way, when I lost his trail. Did he pass by?" 

Neither of the two animals gives an answer. Instead, they 
put their heads together and whisper excitedly. This goes on 
for some time (until you have a good mind to leave them to 
their secrets), when they finally approach you with broad 
smiles on their faces. 

"Child of Adam and Eve," squeaks the squirrel. "My name 
is Shaketail, and this is Grumblebelly. We are Friends of the 
Lion, and if what you say is true, then you must stay here with 
us until the Gathering. But, come, tell us more about yourself." 

You try to remember that it is unwise to let strangers know 
all about you, but the squirrel soon makes you forget this. In 
a very short time, you have explained all about how you 
arrived in this strange land, and what has happened to you 



since. In return, the animals answer some of your own ques- 
tions. They say that the land you have arrived in is called 
Narnia, and that the lion you saw may be the one they call 
Asian. It seems that no one in Narnia has seen Asian for very 
many years, and that it is very important that they should find 
him before it is too late. Why this is all so, you are not able to 
make out from the squirrel's report (especially since Grum- 
blebelly keeps interrupting with what Shaketail refers to as 
"trivialities"). It all sounds rather big and important, however, 
and you have become a part of it. 

"You see," says Shaketail. "That is why we are having this 
gathering tonight. All the Friends of Asian will be showing up 
to make plans on how to find him. Why, even the King will be 
coming!" 

King? This is serious! After enough information has been 
exchanged to fill an afternoon, the animals seat you beneath 
the tree. They give you wonderful fresh bread, honey and nuts 
to eat as the sun begins to set. Over the next few hours other 
men and animals make their way up the hill. There are dwarfs 
with long red beards, satyrs with the hind legs and horns of a 
goat, and a graying centaur who appears near evening fol- 
lowed by two fairies in gossamer dresses made of butterfly 
wings. 

Shaketail and Grumblebelly compete for the privilege of 
telling each new arrival about you and your adventure. Every- 
one greets you warmly and with a certain amount of awe. 
Soon, you have made several new friends and as the night falls 
and grows deeper, you become more and more comfortable in 
your new surroundings. Then comes the sound of a great horn 
from the distance; it sends a thrill of delight and nervous dread 
down your spine. 

The centaur goes to the edge of the firelight, listens a 
moment, then declares, "The King approaches!" Turn to 255. 



231 

As you lay into the nearest Watcher, he just laughs and 
grabs you by the collar to toss you aside. "You might get hurt, 
little one," he advises. "You'd best stay out of this." Then he 
returns to the fight, 

With tears in your eyes, you watch the guards subdue the 
valiantFriends. The battle is tost! Prisoners and guards run in 
all directions. One ofthem is running at you! Dashing for the 
cover of the woods, you cry, "Asian! Asian help me!" A 
tremendous roar fills your ears, leaving you stunned for a 
moment. When you recover, not the woods but the schoolyard 
surrounds you! Dazed and lonely, you wander into the famil- 
iar dormitory to dream of the day when you might return to 
Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

232 

Fortunately, the mole flees unhurt to the safety of the 
animal quarter of the Yard. Alas, you do not fare as well. All 
four of the boys attack you in a very unsporting manner, and 
do not leave until they have bloodied your nose. Alone in the 
dirt, trying to hold back the tears, you cannot remember a time 
when you felt more alone and miserable. 

You are just wondering if there are any friendly people at 
all in this world, when a gentle hand rests upon your shoulder. 
A man in a brown robe kneels at your side and says, "Rules and 
regulations, child! Who did this to you?" 

Where you come from it is considered very bad form to 
snitch on others (even bullies). So, instead, you wipe eyes and 
say, "Please, sir. I'm lost." 

The man seems to consider your words carefully, then says, 
"I want to help. Come with me." Turn to 188. 



233 

"Over here!" shouts the Satyr, knocking his guards to the 
floor with a bump of his short horns. 

Nimbly escaping the grasp of the nearest Watcher, you leap 
down from the platform and try to push your way to the Satyr. 
There arejust too many excited people in the way, however, 
and you cannot push through. Meanwhile, more guards are 
advancing from this side of the crowd and you are forced to run 
in the only available direction, namely, away from the Satyr. 

It is less than a merry chase out of the hall and through the 
confusing corridors of the Temple, but at last you manage to 
evade the Watchers and find a way out of the building. Once 
outside, you sneak from bush to bush for cover until the hill is 
left far behind. Breathless, you pause beneath a small oak, 
wishing only to return home. After some moments to reflect, 
it seems that the best way to get there is to find the street lantern 
and hope it takes you back. Sadly, you push onward as night 
falls. Turn to 273. 

234 

You were right! The peg did hold the rope in place. Of 
course, sometimes it isn't very pleasant being right. Now, for 
instance, when the rope is free from the peg and the bucket you 
are standing in flies merrily toward the bottom of the well. 
Turn to 300. 

235 

Slowly, you work your way back to the rear of the group. 
Ahead on the left, a shadowy side passage draws nearer. Just 
as you pass the archway you attempt to slip unnoticed into the 
darkness. Pick a number and add your Trickery bonus: 
• If 2-4, turn to 211. 
' If 5-12, turn to 155. 



236 

As a group, you head east through the woods. Nothing more 
is said, and you are left to your own thoughts about what 
awaits you at the Temple. Could you have made a terrible 
blunder by claiming to be the lion's friend? Eventually, you 
step onto a road that ambles around hills topped by pretty 
green fields. You are amazed to see squirrels and chipmunks 
harvesting apples into baskets, while ewes draw water from a 
well and doves sort grain into bins. As the miles pass, your 
wonder turns to worry. Something must be very wrong if so 
many creatures wear frowns on their faces! After hours 
walking, just before the sun has quite set, you spy the Temple 
shining goldly atop a bare hill. "Magnificent," you think, but 
find yourself regretting the thought as you draw nearer. There 
is something in its hundreds of spires and gaudy red and purple 
and green windows that seems totally out of place in this land 
of simple hues and contours. Turn to 223. 



237 

A thick, blue rug cushions your footsteps as you proceed 
slowly down the left hand corridor. It would not have seemed 
possible, but the decor here is more elaborate than anywhere 
else in the Temple. The ceiling and walls are covered with 
brightly painted carvings in wood and stone and you almost 
miss a comparatively plain door at the end of the corridor. It 
is large and bronze, but bears only a single ornament, an 
engraved likeness of a bearded face (more ugly than funny, 
really) wearing a huge turban. 

Approaching, you discover that the door is ajar. Distant 
muttering reaches you from the other side and you are both 
afraid and curious. You crouch a moment beside a spotted 
vase to figure out what to do next; should you go in? 

• Ifyou investigate the sounds behind the door, turn to 314. 

• Ifyou turn back and head down the right corridor, 
turn to 162. 

238 

Putting on the green hat evokes a fit of laughter from the 
children in the class. The professor, however, is not amused. 
Shouting at the top of his lungs (very loudly indeed) he 
silences his students, then turns his fury on you. 

"I don't tolerate clowns in my class!" he fumes. "You had 
best mean anything you do around me, child! Since you've 
chosen the dunce cap, you'll suffer the consequences!" 

Consequences? Suffer? Good heavens! Couldn't you just 
put the hat back? Turn to 207. 




239 

"You are a heretic spy!" cries the guard, drawing an ugly 
curved sword. 

With a gasp, you dash back up the corridor crying, "Asian! 
Help me, Asian ! " As you turn the next corner, a distant roaring 
reaches your ears; there is a terrific jolt, and the next thing you 
know England and the schoolyard are around you. Relieved 
and dismayed, you go inside to dream about returning some- 
day to the land of Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

240 

The mole can take care of herself, you think, turning away. 
But the terrified cries of the tiny creature hurt your ears. What 
to do? Pick a number and add your Inner Strength bonus: 

• 1/2-5, turn to 167. 

• If 6-12, turn to 141. 

241 

"Yes," you answer. 

For a long, rather uncomfortable moment, the Lion seems 
to look inside you. Then his face takes on a wildjoy that is both 
wonderful and frightening. Leaping to his feet, he shakes his 
great mane and growls playfully, "Get on my back, child." 

Afraid to do as he says but wanting desperately to obey, you 
climb onto the Lion's broad back and bury your hands in his 
soft mane. He bounds away, thrilling as a locomotive or an 
airplane, but alive and above all, well, Asian. Then you see 
where he is going and are suddenly filled with fear. For he is 
bounding directly for the cliff! Surely, he does not mean to 
climb it, not with you on his back? 

Oh, but he does! In the first leap he lands twenty feet up. 
Your heart does a flip, yet there seems to be no real danger. 



Higher and higher he climbs, bouncing from rock to pre- 
carious rock as only a very special Lion can. At last you reach 
the top of the waterfall where you tumble onto the grass weak 
with joy and excitement. 

"Oh, Asian!" you exclaim. "That was..." 

Something makes you stop suddenly. The Lion has lost his 
playful look and is sitting at the edge of the cliff . He stares out 
over the land solemnly (you can just see the ocean from up 
here). "Asian, what is it?" you ask, going to his side. 

"See them moving," he says in a deep voice. "The people 
of Narnia. They have seen the river returned to life. They know 
I am here. They are coming in faith and hope." 

It seems there is a greatness in all the Lion says. Looking 
over Narnia, you too can see the dark patches of people and 
animals moving across the land. Within a short while they will 
be there at the base of the waterfall. All because of him. All 
because of the Lion. In the midst of this you feel rather small 
and confused and stupid, and you wish it was possible tojust 
fold up and be tucked away some where. 

But look! They are already here! AH the creatures of 
Narnia. There is King Daliar. He is saying something. "Dear 
Asian! We are ashamed of what we have become! And we 
wish foryou to know thatour faith is still strong in you. Please! 
Return to Narnia!" 

Suddenly, all becomes still. Asian speaks. "You see the 
river run andtellmeofyourfaith. Only one person among you 
was able to find me. This child at the bottom of the Dry River. 
This child found me. This child must take the leap of faith!" 

As the Lion speaks your stomach grows tight and queasy. 
Is something terrible about to happen? You were the only one 
able to find him? You must take the leap of faith? What does 
he mean? 



Then Asian turns to you, and in his loving eyes you see the 
meaning of his words. He wishes you to leap with faith and 
trust in him from the top of the waterfall! Good heavens! He 
is a special Lion, yes! But is he a very special Lion? 

Below, the people of Narnia wait. Above, Asian the Lion 
waits. And within you, something - a feeling or a question - 
waits. How do you answer? 

• Ifyou decide to leap, turn to 265. 

• Ifyou refuse to leap, turn to 306. 




242 

"I am grateful for the offer," you mutter, looking down at 
your shoes, "but I want to go home." 

"Home?" shrieks Haadreh. "There is no home outside the 
Temple, and no place for you except at my side. Guards! Take 
this sand flea out of my sight and throw it in the dungeon!" 



Of all the responses, that was the least expected. But now 
you are glad to have refused his offer. Who would want to 
work beside such a madman? Still, 'as the guards lead you 
away, you wonder if this is not too high a price to pay for 
honor. Turn to 175. 

243 

"Halt! Hold! Stand fast!" cry the guards as you approach 
out of the shadows. "Who are you and what' s your business?" 

"It's just me," you say rather flustered. "I'm going home." 

Without turning their backs the two guards put their heads 
together and whisper. They confer for what seems a very long 
time, and often point rudely in your direction. Finally, one of 
them says, "There's a curfew, child. No one may go in or out 
of the Temple after dark." 

"Oh," you reply sadly. "I guess I'll go back inside then." 

"But you can't," says the other. "Now that you're out, you 
have to stay out." 

"That's silly!" 

"Yes, well, those are the Rules. There isn't anything we can 
do about it. Now come along with us quietly, please." 
"Where?" you demand to know. 

"Why to the prison, of course," they answer. "You've 
broken curfew and the Rules say : to prison. Come on, then." 

Suddenly, you've had all you can stand of the Temple and 
its silly Rules. "Hang it all," you mutter. "I must escape!" 

• If you want to fight your way past the guards, turn to 321. 

• If you think you can simply run away, turn to 176. 

244 

The Yard is a large, walled-in field of bare dirt without the. 
slightest hint of vegetation. The children are very noisy and 
rather rough as they kick up great clouds of dust, playing such 
vicious games as Sack the Lion and Pummel. 



Walking away from the main group of children, you notice 
a smaller section of the yard which is marked off by a black 
line. Beyond the line gather all of the young animals of the 
school, playing quieter games or talking amongst themselves. 

Just then, arather small mole (though bigger than any mole 
in your world) wanders across the black line into the section 
of the yard you are in. She squints in the bright daylight, and 
feels about blindly with her pink hands. Is she lost? You are 
about to lend her a hand when the mean boy with the freckles 
runs over to the mole and says, "Say there, blinky. Don't you 
know this side is for human children? Go back over there with 
the other beasts. Go and dig a hole like a real animal." 

The little mole is obviously too frightened by the bully to 
move. Shej ust stands there, her squinty eyes filling with tears. 

"Don'tjust stand there blubbering," says the boy, feeling 
rather full of himself. "Go crawl back in the dirt where you 
belong, or I'll have my father make a soup out of you." 

This sets the poor creature crying aloud, and she stumbles 
frantically in the wrong direction. The bully gives chase and 
calls to his friends to join in on the cruel fun. As three more 
boys fall in behind him, you wonder what you should do. 

• Ifyou go to the aid of the mole, turn to 336. 

• Ifyou think it best not to get involved, turn to 240. 



245 

A friendly young horse (whose name you can't begin to 
pronounce) escorts you to the edge of the Dry River, a deep, 
ugly gash running through the heart of Narnia. The colt seems 
fearful and anxious to leave; he bids you a warm (if some what 
hasty) farewell. Once again you are alone. And what a dreary 
place to be! Only the promise you made to Dakar keeps you 
from running all the way to the lamp-post and back home. 

The bed of the Dry River holds shifting sand and sharp 
stones that fill your shoes and bruise your feet. The bank is 
little better, overgrown with dry, prickly weeds that thrive on 
dust and heat. Worst of all is the deadly feeling of loneliness 
that rises from the dry earth. Strange thoughts swirl in your 
head, tempting you to desperation. Memories of the morning 
spent alone in the foggy schoolyard come back to haunt you, 
leaving you depressed and frightened. 

One day goes by, and then two, maybe three. You are no 
longer sure. Time seems to stand still in the bed of the Dry 
River, but not with a stillness of importance nor with peace. 
The stillness is something quite different You've been com- 
ing very close to it all the time, or it has been coming close to 
you, but you realize you will never find out what it is until you 
have stopped. Not until you have become as still as the Dry 
River will you understand. 

Suddenly, you look up from the dusty sand, and there it is, 
a bleak, gray cliff a hundred feet high. A glance shows that it 
is unclimbable. You can go no further. You are standing still 
within the bed of the Dry River. 



Now you understand! The Dry River is filled with the 
stillness of Death! A death that has no life beyond! And that 
is where you are, for how else could you recognize it? Dizzy, 
you fall to the dead sand of the river bed. 

Closing your eyes, you feel your last bit of life slipping into 
the river of stillness. Then, just before everything ceases, 
something stirs within you. It's very faint, and very far away, 
but it is there and it is important. A promise or a memory. 

Your mind plays with it, as with a bit of nothing. While it 
plays, a curious idea comes to life: an image of what the river 
was like before it died. How the water looked coursing across 
smooth stones, how it sounded leaping over the earth, what 
animals lived in its pools and drank at its grassy banks. And, 
oh, how the watermusthave tossed and tumbled over that high 
cliff, catching the light in a multitude of drops and a fan of 
colors! How wonderful it must have been! How alive! 

You imagine you can taste the water on your cracked and 
dusty lips, imagine you can feel a fine spray of mist on your 
cheeks, and hear a distant roar of rapids. 

Then, you look up at the cliff face and see a great, living 
body of water fall from the precipice to land with a terrific 
splash in the bed below. 



Amazed, you leap to your feet and race for the bank as the 
river fills before your eyes with rushing water. It is a call to all 
of Narnia! Laughing, you turn, and 'there, no more than a 
handspring away, a huge Lion sits regally on the grass. His 
eyes gaze calmly into yours as though he is perfectly at peace, 
waiting for you to do what you came for. Then you remember. 
With the river stretching behind you, you remember. 

"If you are Asian the Lion," you say weakly. "There is 
something I have to tell you. The folk of Narnia still have faith 
in you. The Talking Animals, too. All of them." 

The Lion raises his eyelids and says quietly, "Do you?" 

Oh, dear. How awful those eyes are! How wonderful! 
Whatever should you tell him? 

• If you say you believe in Asian, turn to 241. 

• Ifyou say you do not believe, turn to 310. 




246 

"I'm lost," you say. 

Rather than showing any concern, the little man merely 
rolls his eyes and says, "Yes, yes. Very correct. You've 
spoken well. Now run along. You're supposed to be in 
school." Then with a swish of his robes he is back to admiring 
himself in the mirror. 

A very confusing (and none too helpful) reply, that sug- 
gests no definite action. Of course, he did say you were 
supposed to be in school, but you already knew that. Bewil- 
dered, you hang about in the doorway a little longer, gathering 
the courage to continue exploring the Temple. Turn to 162. 

247 

Tems and turbans, you've been caught! Oh, if only you had 
realized how evil Haadreh was before you had gotten into such 
a mess! Held firmly between two of the Watchers, you are led 
off to prison. Turn to 175. 

248 

Even though it doesn't make any sense, you know what the 
professor wants to hear and you answer, "Follow the Rules 
and Shun the Lion." 

A dry smile creeps across his face and he says, "Well 
spoken! At least there is someone who has paid the old 
professor some attention. Please, child, put on a blue turban 
and move to the front of the class." 

It seems silly, but you do as he says. The boy with the 
freckles gives you a very mean glance as you exchange hats, 
and it is a relief to move away from him. The rest of the session 
continues unendingly with the explanation of several confus- 
ing and rather pointless Rules. At last the professor dismisses 
the class with a scowl, and everyone files out into the Recrea- 
tion Yard. Turn to 244. 



249 

Suddenly, it occurs to you what still needs to be done. 
Certainly, you cannot leave without first telling Norian about 
the danger he's in! Turn to 114. 

250 

Pushing against the nose of the blue yak, you open the door 
(it's not locked!) and step through. On the other side is a long 
corridor running to the right and left. Ah! That sounds correct. 
Now which way did Norian say to go from here? 

• Ifyou turn to the right, turn to 294. 

• Ifyou head down to the left, turn to 291. 

251 

Stepping onto the earthen stoop, you knock timidly upon 
the wooden door. Inside, chairs are pushed back rapidly, 
followed by the sound of soft paws approaching the door. 
"Who's there?" an old, yet burly voice calls out. 

• Ifyou give your name, turn to 339. 

• Ifyou say, "A friend, " turn to 100. 

• Ifyou say, "I'm lost, " turn to 158. 

252 

Even though it might cause trouble, you decide it would be 
better to tell the truth. Turn to 217. 

253 

You turn to go, but stop suddenly. Curious, but it seems you 
have left something undone. Pick a number and add your 
Inner Strength bonus: 
' If 2-6, turn to 266. 

• If 7- 12, turn to 249. 



254 

"Well done," is all the voice says, but it might well have 
been a battle cry for all the fright it causes you. Fears are laid 
to rest, however, when the speaker moves out of the shadows, 
He is a friendly looking young man with fine blond hair and 
a wispy beard. His clothes are different from any you have 
seen in the land, finely cut, but simply colored and comfort- 
able. When it is certain that you have recovered yourself, he 
says, "My name is Rabian. You did well with the Temple 
guards. My friends and I could use a smart child such as 
yourself. In fact, we are going to a Gathering right now. Would 
you join us?" 

Though you have come to suspect the motives of most of 
the people in this world, the young man seems incapable of 
deceit. "I'll go to the gathering," you say, "but then I must be 
getting home." 

"Good enough!" he replies merrily and starts to lead you 
through the woods. Others can be heard moving in the trees 
beside you, but they are as invisible as the wind. Rabian asks 
many questions as the countryside passes by, and soon he has 
learned all about you and your curious adventure. "My, this 
must be a good omen!" he says, but does not explain what he 
means. 

After some time walking, you arrive at a grassy hill on top 
of which there is a great fire burning. Men and animals are 
gathered there, and you join them. Rabian gives everyone a 
full account ofyouradventures, after which they welcome you 
into their circle. It seems they have important matters to 
discuss amongst themselves, however, and for the moment 
you are left alone, in wonder. Turn to 111. 



255 

The sound of hoofbeats grows louder and everyone holds 
their breath in expectation. All at once a black horse with 
silver flecks prances into the firelight. On her back sits a noble, 
elderly king with a straight back and firm chin. Long white 
hair flows from under his simple golden circlet. His eyes flash 
merrily in the firelight, but his brows show a deep solemnity. 
Never have you had the chance to bow before a king, but honor 
comes naturally in front of this gentle monarch. 



As the king dismounts, the others are quick to tell him about 
you and your curious circumstances. Stroking his finely 
trimmed beard, he listens intently, and when they tell the part 
about your coming from another world, his eyes grow wide 
with surprise and wonder. Immediately, he strides over to 
where you stand beside the big brown bear. 

"My name is Daliar. I am King of this land called Narnia." 
You bow again, but he catches your chin in his hand saying, 
"That is not necessary. I welcome you as an equal. Though it 
has been many years, other children have visited Narnia, and 
done the land great service. In fact, four such children once 
reigned as the High Kings and Queens of Narnia!" 

It is awkward to be spoken of in the same breath with 
royalty, but the Kingjust chuckles at your modesty, and says, 
"Humility is a good thing at the right time and in proper doses, 
but do not doubt that you have come here for a purpose. These 
are hard times we find ourselves in, child, and I suspect you 
may be the key to getting us out of them." 

Goodness, where could this be leading? "Hard times?" you 
repeat inquisitively. 

"Sit, and I shall tell you," replies King Daliar. You sit with 
the others near the fire. Daliar stands and begins his tale. "I can 
scarcely remember it now, but there was a time when Narnia 
was a land of content and plenty. Each worked and harvested 
according to his needs, and none interfered with the happiness 
of his neighbor. Men and beasts knew how to live together 
with a few basic rules. Yet that was a long time ago. Now we 
live in an age of endless toil and meagre rewards." 

The words are simple, but their meaning is terrifying. 
"What happened?" you ask. 

Daliar's brows come together angrily. "Haadreh die Wise 
and his Temple, that is what happened! He's a small, sour 
prune of a man, exiled from Calormen in the south like a 
scorpion from a den of vipers." 



"Fleeing to Narnia, he worked his sly craft on our innocent 
people, bending them to his own, greedy purposes. He has 
built that ugly Temple and implemented the Rules to run our 
lives into the ground!" 

'Temperance, sire," warns an old centaur gently, as he 
moves to the King's side. 'There were those before Haadreh 
who are to be blamed more for our condition. Have we not 
agreed?" 

"You are right, my friend," Dakar concedes, "You see, 
child. It is we Narnians, who are reaUy responsible for our 
pligkt. We believe (or say we do) that one being is the cause 
of our happiness in this land. From him we receive all the 
blessings of the earth and the benefits of a j ust heart. The being 
of whom I speak is Asian the Lion." 




The Lion ! Could it be the lion you saw in the woods was the 
special creature they are talking about? But the King contin- 
ues. "Long before I was bom, it is said that Asian no longer 
walked through the land. After a while, people began to doubt 
him. The doubts were not very strong, but were there all the 
same. Haadreh worked upon these doubts, distracting con- 
fused people at every turn with his colorful clothes and 
flowery nonsense. Soon Haadreh taught them to believe in 
their doubts and shun the Lion as evil!" 



You are not sure you believe in the Lion either, but one 
question needs to be asked. "If Asian is as powerful as you say, 
why doesn't he just come and set things right again?" 

"Ah, child," sighs the King. "The praise of a loving heart 
acts as an open door to the Son of the Emperor-beyond-the- 
sea. Yet, the chill of hatred and fear and doubt can hold at bay 
even the power of the Lion. If even one soul seeks him in 
earnest, Asian will walk our lands again. That is what we do 
here, now. We seek the only source of all ourjoy. And time 
grows short. The number of the faithful grows smaller every 
day. Will you join us? This could be the reason you came to 
Narnia. This could be your purpose!" 

Purpose? What a heavy word! Certainly, you would like to 
help these people, but can you? Can you search for the Lion 
when you don't even know that you believe in him? 

• Ifyou want to join in the search, turn to 166. 

• Ifyou are not sure, turn to 101. 

• Ifyou do not want to join, turn to 112. 



256 

Praying that the guards will not turn around, you slip 
through the crack in the copper door. Beyond is a high domed 
corridor that stretches away into the shadows between flick- 
ering torches. On the left hand wall, you see a heavy oaken 
door with bars filling most of its upper half. On the other side 
sits a fat, snoring Watcher in a rocking chair. 

Silently, fearfully, you creep up to the door and peer in. 
Daliar and Grumblebelly are all within, looking worn and 
miserable. When the King notices you, he rushes to the bars. 

"You've come, child!" he whispers happily. "Be quick! 
Get the keys from the guard sleeping in the chair. We haven't 
a moment to waste!" 

Swallowing hard, you tiptoe over to the Watcher and inch 
your hand toward the keys on his belt. Picka number andadd 
your Trickery bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 283. 

• If 6-12, turn to 318. 

257 

As the fog seems to gather more densely than ever, you feel 
a little frightened. If you keep a steady course, a row of street 
lamps must lead somewhere and you should be able to cut 
across to the other side of them. But, isn't that the outline of 
the school, over there to the right? Uncertain, yet determined, 
you head in that direction. Your heart leaps at the sight of what 
could be the light of your own room ahead, then sinks when 
you find its only another of those confounded street lanterns. 
Now it seems certain that you have been walking in circles all 
along, and may never hope to see your dear old school again. 
You walk over to the lantern to wait for the fog to lift, almost 
imagining that you can hear the rumblings of wild animals in 
the mist. Turn to 309. 



258 

"In church, sir," you answer meekly. 

Even though that is the truth, it obviously was not what the 
old man (or any of the others for that matter) wanted to hear. 
A dangerously excited chatter rises from the stands as the old 
man leaps upon his feet in the chair. You would laugh at the 
little figure if it weren't for the horribly angry look on his face. 
At your back you can hear how the Watcher's have braced 
themselves for violence. 

"Just as I thought from the very beginning!" shouts the old 
man, pointing his finger rudely in your direction. "This child 
is nothing but a rabble-rouser and a menace. To the dungeons 
with the little beast! Put it in with the other Friends of the Lion, 
and let it share their fate!" 

"Correct as always, your Sagacity," says the Scribe with a 
short yawn. "Your judgement will be promptly carried out. 
Come along, child. It's to the dungeons with you." 

Like a bad dream, the faces of the crowd swim before your 
eyes. Most of them are frightfully angry, but it seems that 
some of them are ashamed, while others show signs of definite 
sympathy. Can't they help? As if to answer, the door to the 
chamber shuts with a bang and you find yourself back in the 
gaudy corridor with the Watchers, Wrapped in gloomy 
thought, you walk between them to the dungeons. Turn to 
175. 

259 

Long after your feet have become sore from walking 
through the Temple's endless corridors, you arrive in a large 
round room. An immense chandelier with tiers of smoky 
candles reveals a very odd scene indeed. Rows of seats rise 
from the floor, not like in a stadium, but more like on a 
wedding cake, so that every person sitting in a seat is looking 
up at the person sitting in front of him. 



At the very top is a high desk at which sits an old man with 
a tall red and green hat on his head. The room is filled with an 
assortment of individuals: pages in vivid green costumes, 
grizzled professors in purple, brown, blue, and yellow robes 
and mortarboards, naiads draped in gauzy veils, dwarfs with 
fierce red beards, moles wearing spectacles, badgers in bowler 
hats, a Faun with a mournful look on his merry face, and a 
Giant smoking a huge pipe. You look up and about you so long 
your head spins, but already the Scribes are leading onward, 
up the steps to the top. 

"Pardon me, your Judiciousness" says the Head Scribe, 
once you have all reached the top of the platform. 

The old man looks up from his papers to blink at you with 
red-veined eyes. "What is it?" he asks with a gravely voice. 

"We seem to have stumbled upon a Friend of the Lion, and 
think a decision is in order." 

"Why do you bother me with such trivialities," whines the 
old man. "You know what to do. To the dungeons with the 
heretic!" 

Heretic? Are they talking about you? And what could he 
mean by 'to the dungeons?' Things are taking a nasty tone. 
You are about to bolt down the stairs when the Scribe speaks. 

"Yes, your Wisdomship," he says, "but, as you can see, we 
thought that in this case the age of the offender should be taken 
into account. The child seems to be troubled by confusions of 
the most unenlightened sort, and should perhaps be forgiven 
for babbling things it does not understand." 

The old man's bleary gaze falls upon you (there is some- 
thing of the fish, a flounder perhaps, in his watery eyes). After 
using several long moments to determine that you are, indeed, 
a child, he scowls and asks, "Do you know the Golden Rule?" 

• Ifyou do know the Golden Rule, turn to 130. 

• Otherwise, turn to 216. 



260 

"Oh, stop! Please, don't harm them!" you find yourself 
shouting at the Watchers. 

For a moment, all eyes are on you. Even the Watchers have 
turned to see who has dared to contradict them. The Scribe 
raises a warning finger "Stay out of this, child. You don't 
want to associate yourself with the likes of these two -" 

He is about to say Mice, but when he turns to point to them, 
they are gone, halfway across the field, running as fast as they 
can go. "Run child!" you can hear one ofthem calling back to 
you. "Run, Friend of Asian!" 

The four Watchers chase across the field after the Mice, 
while the three Scribes look on and talk excitedly amongst 
themselves. The opportunity for escape seems to have pre- 
sented itself. Should you take the Mouse's advice? 

• Ifyou attempt to sneak, away, turn to 285. 

• Ifyou decide to stay, turn to 214. 




261 

"I've got to get home," you remind the men. 

"Watchers, take this child, and see that it gets back to the 
Temple!" Two of the Watchers step toward you with open 
hands. Being lost is still better than being locked up some- 
where for who knows what! You'd best make a run for the 
woods! Pick a number and addy our Action bonus: 
• 1/2-5, turn to 202. 
•1/6-12, turn to 113. 



262 

Like an angry cat, you leap at the guards from out of the 
darkness, wildly swinging legs and arms. Both of the men are 
so surprised (they think you are a demon) that they are not able 
to put an arrow to their bows before you have completely 
tangled their weapons. With both of the bows wrapped about 
your flailing limbs, you are an even more dangerous oppo- 
nent. The guards run up the lane to get help. 

Hardly believing what has happened, you cast the bows 
aside andrun out into the dark safety of the countryside. Under 
cover of the woods, you stop to take a breath when a voice 
comes out of nowhere. Turn to 254. 

263 

Suddenly, Norian steps into the circle of light around the 
bonfire. 

"Excuse me, but I would like to help," declares the gentle 
professor. "I am a teacher at the Temple. At least, I was until 
now. Now Haadreh regards my teachings as heretical. I am 
curious about Asian. Indeed, witnessing your hope and cour- 
tesy, I am almost a believer myself. Let me help you free the 
prisoners!" 

"If you are a true Friend," replies Dakar, "then you are 
welcome. Follow me as your King and your brother, and 
Asian himself will bring us victory!" Turn to 279. 



264 

As your tale unfolds, Haadreh's eyes grow wider and wider 
with excitement. He asks you many questions about your own 
world and how you got here. You answer him as best you can, 
considering the confusing nature of the situation. He shows a 
keen interest in all you have to say and his eyes take on an 
unusual brightness when you describe your encounter with the 
lion in the woods. 

In turn, Haadreh is able to put some answers to the many 
questions that have troubled you since you left the schoolyard 
so long ago. He says this land is called Narnia (at last, a 
name!), and that it is peopled not only by humans, but Talking 
Beasts as well. He goes on to explain that in Narnia the greatest 
institution is the Temple and the highest law is its list of Rules. 
As the wisest man in Narnia, he is the head of the Temple and 
ruler of the land. His people live long and happy lives under 
his guidance, and are never given cause to complain. 

He does admit, however, that there are a few evil individu- 
als roaming the land who like nothing better than to disrupt the 
peaceful lives of the Narnians. They are led, it seems, by a 
corrupt Talking Lion, who bullies people into his service. 
(Well, that explains a lot!) 

You have the distinct impression that Haadreh is hinting at 
something else with his story. Finally (much to your relief), he 
looks you straight in the eye. 

"Now listen closely, child," he says. "What I am about to 
say could change your life forever. You are a very special sort 
of person, and because you are so special, I am going to make 
you an offer the gods would be jealous of." 

You dare not ask what he means, but swallow a growing 
fear. 



"Stay with me," he says. "Become my ward and pupil. 
Why, you will have everything you ever dreamed of. Fine 
clothing, rich foods, soft beds to sleep in, and baths of 
rosewater! Servants, friends, and the respect of all whose path 
you cross shall be yours! Tell me, what do you say to this?" 

How should you answer? 

• Ifyou accept the offer, turn to 179. 

• Ifyou reject the offer, turn to 159. 

265 

"L..I will leap," you say. 

The Lion says nothing, neither congratulates you nor tries 
to talk you out of your decision. He merely makes a little room 
for you at the edge. Dreamlike, you step toward the precipice. 
Far below, the upturned faces of the Narnians are like small 
pebbles, no larger than flecks of sand. You wonder how you 
must look to them, and how you will appear when... when you 
reach the bottom. Then things start to go black, and it feels as 
though you might faint. 

The Lion growls. Not loudly, but deeply, filling your body 
with an unknown strength. This is what waited inside! 

You step off the ledge. The sky falls away from you, 
whipping through your hair as it goes. There is no sound but 
that of a heart beating. Is it yours? Is it Asian's? There is no 
sensation, but an irresistible force, pulling you downward, 
pulling you upward. Then there is water, and a gasp from a 
thousand throats. Are you dead, you wonder at the bottom of 
the pool? The next moment there is light and sound and the 
joyous outburst of a world come to life. King Daliar pulls you 
from the water and laughs a deep andjoyful laugh. The others, 
too, are laughing, and someone is roaring. It is Asian! 



But all is not finished. Haadreh, the leader of the Temple, 
strides furiously to the river bank on his short legs, his mad 
robes waving in the wind. "Heretic! Heretic!" he shouts, 
pointing at you with his boney little fingers. Then he spots 
Asian, and begins to quake. "The Lion! Kill it! Kill the Lion!" 

"The time of the Temple is over," growls Asian. "He who 
stood by it shall fall with it." A last tremendous growl knocks 
Haadreh into the river. The miserable little man bobs in the 
violent current like a flower of silk and is washed away to the 
sea. 

As youjoin in the cheering, you notice Asian giving you a 
curious look. "Must I go home now?" you ask. 

"No!" says Asian with a mighty roar. "There is much for 
you to see yet. Come! Get on my back. We must go higher up!" 

And so you do. Together you journey with the Lion to the 
lands beyond the waterfall. 

THE BEGINNING 

266 

On second thought, nothing important remains to be done 
except escape. Following Norian's directions carefully, you 
finally emerge from the Temple. Outside in the darkness, 
Asian the Lion waits for you. He seems much larger than when 
you last saw him, and his face is almost too angry to look upon. 

"Child," he says in a deep voice that makes the earth 
tremble, "despite all of his help, you have left Norian alone 
without telling him that he is to be thrown into the dungeon 
tomorrow. This is not the behavior of one who calls himself a 
friend of mine." 

Suddenly, a hot wave of shame rises in your cheeks and you 
cry "Is it too late? Can he be saved?" 



"Yes," says Asian. "By tomorrow this Temple will no 
longer be standing, and he will be saved. But for you it is too 
late. I am sending you home with your shame. Perhaps 
someday you will be worthy enough to return to Narnia and 
call yourself my friend. Until then, good bye." 

Feeling sorry, not for yourself, but for your selfishness, you 
sink to the ground and hide your face in the cool grass. A deep 
rumbling shakes the earth as the Lion gives a terrific roar. 
Lifting your head, you find that the schoolyard has returned. 
The mysterious fog has lifted. Sadly, you wander off to the 
buildings to await the day when you might return to Narnia. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

267 

Rising politely, you recite the Golden Rule for the class: 
"Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." 

The professor frowns tiredly. "No, no, no. Doesn't anyone 
ever listen? The Golden Rule is this: Follow the Rules and 
Shun the Lion." 

Well, that isn't how you learned it! Anyhow, why should 
anyone shun the Lion? He seemed friendly enough when you 
met him in the woods and you have half a mind to tell him so. 

• Ifyou say that the lion is a decent sort, turn to 164. 

• Ifyou say nothing, turn to 311. 

268 

Where's the horn? Oh, bother! You threw it at the guard 
inside the Temple! Now you and the others are going to have 
to fight your way out alone! Turn to 322. 



269 

The lion was lovely, but also quite frightening. Besides, is 
a lion something you can be a friend to? "No," you reply. 

"Well, now, there's a smart child, " he says, tousling the hair 
on your head. "You've learned your Rules well. Your parents 
can be proud of you. Now, then, if your path lies along ours, 
you are welcome tojoin us." 

"Why not?" you ask yourself, and fall in behind the others. 
Turn to 334. 




270 



A hot and furious skirmish takes place and then is over as 
quickly as it began. With hardly a bruise, you watch as the 
frightened Watchers run madly up the hill . Could it be there is 
more to you than you think? With a good deal more confi- 
dence, you stride through the copper door. Beyond is an 
immense, domed corridor that stretches out of sight. A snoring 
Watcher is slumped in an old chair against one wall (no match 
for you, eh?). Opposite is an oaken barred door. 

The prison! Rushing to the window, you are sad and 
delighted to find your friends within. Daliar rushes to the bars 
and whispers loudly, "You'vecome, child! Blessyou! Butbe 
quick! Get the keys from the guard and let us out!" 

Shaking violently, you inch toward the guard and attempt 
to slip the keys from his belt. Pick a number and add your 
Action bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 283. 

• 1/6-12, turn to 318. 



271 

Bravely, you pull the rug out from under one of the 
Watchers. With a surprised look on his face, the man flies 
through the air and lands in the fountain with a tremendous 
splash. This does not stop the other two from grabbing you, 
however, and you are dragged from the room with Haadreh's 
angry oaths still ringing in your ears. Turn to 175. 

272 

With a sudden burst of energy, you attempt to avoid 
Haadreh's grasp. Pick a number and add your Action bonus: 

• 1/2-4, turn to 124. 

• 7/5-5, turn to 182. 

• 7/9-72, turn to 301. 

273 

At last, familiar woods spring up around you; the lamp-post 
must be near. Hoping for a better view, you climb toward a 
bare ridge. The silhouette of a street lantern looms against the 
backdrop of stars in the sky. Your heart leaps at the sight and 
the hope of returning home sings a promise. Then a large fire 
bursts into life on a nearby hill. Several figures stand around 
the blaze and their voices drift across the distance. The 
mystery beckons, but so does the lantern.. .and home. 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen from a distance to the people on the hill, 
turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the people an the hill, turn to 296. 



274 

There's only one hope for winning this battle. Blow the 
horn! Putting it to your lips, you give a mighty blast that 
echoes into the woods with such force that the Watchers 
crouch in fear. The battle rages for a few seconds more, and 
then there is an answer to the horn's call - the sound of 
pounding hoofbeats, followed by swift paws and heavy claws. 

In moments, the company of Friends rushes into the middle 
of the fray, giving the guards their due punishment in a fair and 
equal fight. Of course, such battles are not the kind the 
Watchers are fond of waging. As soon as King Daliar lets 
them, they all run up the hill or into the woods, howling like 
frightened dogs. 

"Well sounded!" laughs the King, pointing to the horn. 
"Have we any injuries?" 

"Shaketail has been hurt! "cries Grumblebelly, carrying the 
Squirrel in his arms. 

"It'sjust a small wound to the shoulder, sire! Oh, do put me 
down, Grumblebelly!" 

"Well, then," Daliar says. "Let us return to the woods, 
before these Watchers rally themselves. And three cheers for 
the child! Hurrah!" 

Everyone shakes your hand, and you ride on the King's 
horse back to camp. Turn to 313. 



275 

You dash through the trees, pushing breathlessly through 
their soft, dewy branches. You imagine every step to be your 
last, and can almost feel the lion's hot breath on your back. 

Finally, you break free from the trees and into another 
clearing. Several strange-looking men are gathered there (you 
don't notice how strange at first), and one of them rushes over 
to see what is the matter. You collapse into his arms as the 
others gather round with soft exclamations of "There, there" 
and "Be at peace." 

When you have caught your breath, and it has become clear 
that the lion has not followed after all, you stand on your own 
two feet and look at the men. Now you can see what peculiar 
attire they have on. Three of the men (all of whom are fair- 
skinned, with brown or blonde hair) wear what appear to be 
large, red sheets that are draped about their bodies and clasped 
at the shoulder with brooches of a shiny metal. The other four 
men are dressed in long, brown tunics, and carry bows and 
spears. Not a typical group of Englishmen this lot! 

It is slowly becoming clear that you have wandered further 
astray than mere steps can account for, much further than you 
could ever have thought possible. Fortunately, these men 
seem friendly enough, and might be able to help you get back. 

"I'm lost," you say meekly. 

One of the men in red smiles and says, "We are all lost, 
child. Even those of us named Scribes of the Temple." 
"Where am I?" you try. 

"Where is anyone?" says another of the red-clothed 
Scribes. "Am I here? Or am I there? Am I really anywhere at 
all?" 

"Oh, stop this nonsense!" you shout, stomping a foot. "Just 
tell me who you are." 




"Yes, indeed, who are we?" says the third Scribe, rolling his 
eyes. 

With a frustrated sigh, you give up your questioning, and 
look to the men in the tunics, but their stony faces promise no 
answers either. Their spears bring back images of the lion, 
however, and you wonder if you should tell them of the danger 
lurking in the woods. 

• If you tell them about the lion, turn to 117. 

• Otherwise, turn to 218. 

276 

You are feeling so lonely at the moment that you risk 
disturbing the gentleman's peace. At the sound of your gentle 
knock on the door, he turns to see who is there. Finding a rather 
bedraggled-looking child, he puts down his quill and beckons 
you to his side. With shy steps you enter the room. Turn to 
178. 

277 

The less involved you get with the strange people in this 
place, the better, you think to yourself. Overhead the cloud- 
lion stretches into nothing very special at all, and you walk 
quietly away. Turn to 283. 



278 

It's a long and lonesome journey to the Temple for you, 
now a prisoner. A pleasant countryside of yellow fields and 
rolling hills passes by, but there is little room left in your heart 
to enjoy the scenery. You feel some surprise to see squirrels 
and chipmunks (who talk!) harvesting apples into baskets, 
while ewes draw water from a well and doves sort grain into 
bins. Yet, their industry does little to raise your spirits. 
Something must be very wrong since so many of the creatures 
wear frowns! Turn to 138. 




a 



279 

With only enough time for arousing cheer, the gathering of 
Friends steals into the night. You are left behind to await their 
return, feeling rather ashamed and very lonely. An hour goes 
by and you begin to worry. Two hours later, a proper bout of 
panic begins to take over. At last, however, there is a rustling 
in the bushes, and Shaketail, bleeding from the shoulder, falls 
to the ground from a tree branch. 

"Heavens!" you cry, rushing to the Squirrel's aid. "What 
has happened to you? Where are the others?" 

"I - I escaped," he coughs weakly. "The others. ..all cap- 
tured. Must... rescue... them." Then he falls into merciful un- 
consciousness. 

Suddenly (you are often surprised at how suddenly), you 
are filled with a sense of purpose. There is nothing to do now 
but go to the Temple and set the others free. How is just 
something that will have to work itself out later. Binding the 
Squirrel's wounds with a bit of cloth torn from your trousers, 
you follow the path the others have made toward the Temple. 
You come to the base of the great hill atop of which sits the 
spired building aglow with the fire of a thousand torches. The 
trail leads around to the back, ending at the threshold of a huge 
copper door guarded by four Watchers bearing spears. In front 
of the door you see evidence of a great struggle. This must 
have been where your friends were captured! And that door, 
no doubt, leads to the prison. 

Suddenly, you wish you had volunteered to go alone when 
the chance presented itself. At least then the guards would 
have been less suspicious. Oh, well, there's nothing for it now, 
but to fight or sneak past. (The Watchers do not look as though 
they feel like talking). 

• Ifyou try to sneak past, turn to 160. 

• Ifyou decide to fight the guards, turn to 120. 



280 

"School?" exclaims the Scribe, with a frown. "Well, I 
suppose you might learn something, even if only that there is 
nothing at all to learn, eh? The guard will show you the way. 
We don't want you to get anymore lost than you already are!" 

Hoping to find some answers, then, you follow the Watcher 
into the forbidding interior of the Temple. Turn to 319. 

281 

Surely, Norian said to go down the stairs, didn't he? 
Nervously, you descend wondering what dangers might await 
you. Fortunately, there is still time to wonder. 

At the bottom of the stairs, you find a triangular room 
painted in red and yellow splotches. On one wall (beside a 
hideous bronze planter) is a door with the head of a blue yak 
painted on its surface. On the other wall, there is a door with 
the painting of a black yew tree. 

Clearly, you were told to go through one of these doors, but 
(bother!) which one? 

• Ifyou go through the black yew door, turn to 174. 

• Ifyou go through the blue yak door, turn to 250. 

282 

You land safely in the large bucket with a gasp. Unfortu- 
nately, the rope does not go very far down into the well, and 
no tunnel entrance is visible from here. Looking about, the 
problem becomes apparent. A peg in the cylinder about which 
the rope is coiled prevents it from going lower. 

You glance at the dark depths below again and shiver. Ugh! 
What should you do? 

• Ifyou remove the peg, turn to 234. 

• Ifyou think the rope was a bad idea, turn to 143. 



283 

It seems success is almost at hand, when the keys suddenly 
slip off of the guard's belt and clatter loudly against the 
flagstones. 

'Tm awake! I'm awake!" the Watcher cries, jumping to his 
feet unsteadily. Then, when he sees you standing before him, 
he says, "So, you got out of the cell, did you? Well, I trust you 
won't mind if I just toss you back in, eh?" 

Of course, you do mind (very much) and run down the 
corridor crying, "Asian! Asian help me!" Something very odd 
happens then. A terrific roar fills the passage. Naturally, you 
do not stop to see where it came from, but dash out through the 
copper door. On the other side is a very familiar sight, but one 
that is also baffling. It's your old school yard back in your own 
world! Wandering into the red brick buildings, you doubt very 
much that you shall ever have as curious a day as today. But 
you wish you could! 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just turn to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

284 

As you watch, the little man's dance becomes more and 
more energetic. Holding onto his turban with one hand, he 
does amazing leaps into the air. Left and right, forward and 
backward, from foot to foot, he hops and bounces. There is 
only one word to his song now, that single word "Haadreh!" 

It is very amusing to watch the man dance (you have seen 
monkeys that couldn't dance half so funnily as he), and you 
find it hard to keep from laughing. In a comical grand finale, 
he rolls himself up into a tight ball and spins about on the 
polished floor. Wrapped in his colorful garb, with the large 
round turban on his head, he is like a giant Easter egg spinning 
with a very dizzy chick crying "Haadreh! "from inside. At last, 
you cannot help laughing, and do so very loudly. 



Abruptly, the little man unfolds himself and jumps un- 
steadily to his feet. "Who was that!" he cries, looking about the 
chamber frantically. "Who dares to laugh at the wise and 
mighty Haadreh?" 

His sudden wrath is frightening, but his rumpled appear- 
ance is so funny that you laugh again. Now, with his eyes still 
flashing, the angry little man spots you and snarls, "What are 
you doing here?" 

• If you tell him that you are lost, turn to 246. 

• If you tell him that you are fleeing the Watchers, 
turn to 142. 

285 

With cautious steps you inch further away from the Scribes. 
Pick a number and add your Trickery bonus: 

• If2-4, turn to 148. 

• 1/5-12, turn to 154. 

286 

Not far enough! Your stomach lurches as you fall. Turn to 
300. 



287 

Digging about in the loose dirt uncovers a pick and shovel 
in good condition. Immediately, you set about moving the 
rubble aside. Several minutes of exhausting work (and no little 
amount of sweat) clears the passage to reveal a rock wall. At 
first this is daunting, and it seems all the work has been for 
nothing, but a few taps find a hollow echo. Perhaps there's a 
chamber on the other side! 

With no room for thoughts of turning back, you wield the 
pick against the stone. A little hole opens at first, allowing but 
a thin shaft of light into the tunnel. Then the opening grows 
bigger and bigger as the pick bites away more of the stone. 
Finally, you are able to crawl through into the corridor 
beyond. It is a spacious passage (just about big enough to 
contain yourjoy) with a shadowy arched ceiling. 

The hall is empty except for two doors. One is at the far end, 
huge and made of copper. The other is in the middle of the right 
Hand wall, oaken, with bars in its upper half. You rush to the 
oaken door and find on the other side a bedraggled collection 
of prisoners, people, and animals. 

"Who are you?" asks one of the men angrily. 

"A friend, " you answer, rightly . 

The same man rushes to the bars with a smile on his face. 
"By the Lion, I had never hoped to find such a young and brave 
Friend in this place. Bless you for coming! But be quick. 
There, under the flagstone lies the key that unlocks this door. 
Get it and free us, as it is your intent, good child!" 

Sharing the man's joy, you lift the dirty flagstone and take 
the iron key out from underneath. It turns easily in the lock, 
and though the rusty hinges screech, loudly no guards come. 
Then there is only time for a few hugs of celebration before 
you all leave through the copper door at the end of the hall. 



Outside, of course, stand several Watchers to keep you 
from escaping. But the prisoners, full of new strength and 
hope, are more fearsome foes than the best armed warrior. 
Still, things do not look too even. Perhaps you shouldjoin in? 

• Ifyou join the combat, turn to 322. 

• Ifyou want to do something else first, turn to 274. 

288 

You open your mouth to tell what promises to be a very 
convincing story, but are forced to stop a moment by a queer 
feeling welling up inside you. Pick a number and add your 
Inner Strength bonus: 

• If 2-5, turn to 307. 

• If 6- 12, turn to 252. 

289 

"Yes. I will help, if I can," you tell the squirrel, whose tail 
begins to shake faster. 

"Good," he says, then turns to a large shape in the darkness. 
"Grumblebelly, leave that gruel be for a moment, and come 
meet our new Friend!" 

Out of the corner ambles a large brown bear, licking a few 
drops of porridge from the corners of his mouth. "Hello, little 
Friend," he says, eyeing your crust of bread wistfully. 

"Would you like this? I'm really not hungry," you say. 

"Oh, well, er, why, yes!" stammers the bear, drooling. 
"But, let us listen to the council. The King is about to speak!" 

Suddenly, you cannot move. "King?" you stutter. 

"Yes, yes," answers Shaketail. "Daliar, rightful King of 
Narnia!" 

Stunned at the thought of meeting a real king in this awful 
dungeon, you allow the squirrel and bear to lead you to the 
circle around the broken stone slab. 



In the flickering candlelight, the faces of men and animals 
appear worn and smudged with dirt, but still have a look of 
hope. In their midst stands an ordinary old man with long 
white hair and beard. But there is something about the way he 
stands, the way his brow is furrowed just so, that makes you 
think him rather special. Then you realize that this must be the 
King! 

"Good citizens of Narnia," he begins, and his voice is like 
a glint of silver. "It is only fitting that we should hold what may' 
very well be our last meeting here before Asian's Table. The 
monarch gestures at the great stone slab that lies in two pieces. 
"Here Asian died that we might live. Here lies the symbol of 
ourfaithinhislove. Wemustnotwaivernow. Wemustnotfail 
to give our whole hearts to the search for the Lion." 

The lion! Could they mean the one you saw in the woods? 

• Ifyou tell the King about the lion, turn to 119. 

• Otherwise, turn to 219. 



290 

With your first step, you stumble upon the stub of a candle 
with a flint and tinder. It takes a few moments, but the wick is 
finally set alight and the dark tunnel becomes visible, stretch- 
ing away in a gentle curve as far as the light reaches. You 
follow the passage for what seems hours, when finally it 
narrows and becomes blocked by a heap of stone and dirt. 

"A dead end!" you moan. Have you come all this way, then, 
just to turn back? Perhaps not! Pick a number and addyour 
Perception bonus: 

• If 2-4, turn to 128. 

• If 5-12, turn to 287. 

291 

At the end of the corridor, you encounter a small, yet strong 
man with aface like afox. He watches you slyly with his dark 
eyes. Before you can say hello, he has already snapped, 
"Password!" 

The sudden outburst so unnerves you that you nearly forget 
what the password is. Or did you completely forget it? 

• Ifyou answer "Haadreh the Wise, " turn to 239. 

• Ifyou answer "Open Sesame, " turn to 173. 

• Ifyou answer "Turkish Delight, " turn to 327. 

292 

Standing your ground as best you can, you feel your fear 
being transformed into another feeling, one even more diffi- 
cult to bear for it makes you just as weak in the knees, but 
prevents you from running away. The only thing that keeps 
you from fainting altogether is the desire to look at the lordly 
beast before you. 



A rich smell, like cinnamon or frankincense, floats from his 
magnificently golden mane. And his great, solemn eyes gaze 
into yours with majesty, grace, and, strangely, with love. 

"You are lost," the lion says suddenly. 

Your eyes open wide at hearing the lion speak. You must 
have wandered farther than you ever imagined 
possible. Surely, this can't be England! 

"Follow me," says the lion, again to your amazement. 

You are just deciding what to do, when there is a loud 
commotion in the woods behind you. A voice shouts, "Don't 
move, child! We'll have the beast off of you!" 

Seven men in red and brown costumes rush into the 
clearing. One of them fires an arrow at the lion. The lion, 
whose look invites you to follow him, is struck in the shoulder 
and turns to bound off through the woods. One of the men 
hurries to your side. 

• Ifyou follow the lion, turn to 209. 

• Ifyou stay with the men, turn to 125. 

293 

As dawn flushes the sky pink and gold above the tops of the 
sighing pines, everyone bemoans the wounds of poor 
Shaketail; but the Squirrel is only interested in how you fared 
and insists on being the first to cheer your successful adven- 
ture. 

The othersjoin in, but the King (being the King) is the first 
to stop and say, "Friends! That cheer was well deserved, but 
now we must turn to the most important part of our mission. 
It is at this time, when we all would most like to be together, 
that we must part. Each must turn toward a different corner of 
Narnia and blaze a separate trail in the hopes that we may find 
Asian!" Turn to 303. 



294 

Turn right down the corridor. Isn't that what Norian said to 
do? At the far end, a large man stands before a small crimson 
door. He wears baggy blue pants, no shirt and a large red 
turban on his head. In fact, he looks so much like a genie that 
you half expect him to grant you a wish. 

"What are you doing here?" he bellows rudely. 

"Turkish Delight?" you say, remembering the password. 

"I don't want to play games!" roars the man. "You're not 
supposed to be here. So, now I'm going to have to catch you, 
and I don't want to!" 

Oh, bother! You seem to be in the wrong place. And if the 
rude man catches you, you're bound to wind Up in a place even 
more wrong than this! Do something!. 

• Ifyou throw the horn at the man, turn to 156. 

• Ifyou simply run hack up the corridor, turn to 308. 

295 

You know that the Rules clearly (if somewhat complexly) 
state that any Friend of the Lion is guilty of heresy, but 
something nags at you to reconsider. Pick a number and add 
your Inner Strength bonus: 

• If 2-4, turn to 324. 

• If 5-12, turn to 226. 

296 

Climbing the hill, you can see that a collection of lords, 
ladies, and animals gather around the fire. They are all talking 
(even the animals„of course), and seem in good spirits. Their 
clothes are a bit worn, but they still appear simple, fine folk. 

As you step into the light, one of the women turns and says, 
"Why, look here! It's a child! Have you come for the Gather- 
ing,too?" 

Others join her as you answer, "I don't know. I'm lost, and 
trying to get back home." 



This odd statement encourages everyone in the group to ask 
a number of questions. Before long, they have heard every 
detail of your adventure so far. The tale causes a flurry of 
excited chatter amongst the crowd. One knight declares, "We 
do not know what forces have brought you here, child, but it 
is clear to all of us that you belong at this Gathering tonight and 
nowhere else." 

With that most everyone goes back to what they were 
doing, leaving you alone for the moment in your confusion. 
Turn to 111. 

297 

After much consideration, the little blue turban seems best, 
and you put it carefully on your head. A quiet murmuring 
moves through the class. The professor gives a shocked gasp. 
The old man in the white robe, his face twisted and angry, 
marches over and yanks off the turban. 

"So!" he cries. "We think we're special, do we? We think 
we get to put on the blue turban right away, do we? Come, tell 
the old professor. Have we gone a little mad today? Have we 
forgotten that there are Rules to be followed here in the 
school? Perhaps we have. Perhaps we need to pay a little visit 
to the Master of Rituals, eh?" 

You have no idea who the Master ofRituals is or what a visit 
to him is like, but the terrified look on the faces of the other 
students gives you a fair indication that it is not going to be 
pleasant. Without a word more, the professor takes you firmly 
by the collar and marches you to another part of the hall. 

The Master ofRituals is everything one might expect. His 
pale gray hair has been worried thin, his steady eyes have 
grown dry and sunken from the endless scanning of tomes. 
Once the professor has returned to his class, the Master of 
Rituals walks over to you, his stiff, black robe crackling. 




"Discipline," he rasps between thin lips. (You are not sure 
if it is a greeting or a curse and do not respond.) "Discipline is 
that which the Temple and this land are founded upon. 
Without it, there is chaos and utter destruction. Even the Rules 
are nothing without discipline to them work. Listening?" 

Though it sounded more like a command than a question, 
you start to nod your head, only to be cut off abruptly. "That, 
then, is what you are going to learn. Discipline!" 

A cold sort of fire comes into the Master's dull eyes 
whenever he mentions that word, but there is little time to 
worry about it. 



Suddenly he is speaking very rapidly and it is all you can 
do to keep up. "Take a look at these bricks," he says, pointing 
to a large heap. "As you can see, there are blue bricks, red 
bricks, yellow bricks and green bricks. Your job is to build 
four walls out of these bricks. First you must build a wall of 
green bricks. Then you must take down the green wall and put 
all the green bricks back in the pile. Then you must build a red 
wall . Take down the red wall and build ablue wall . Take down 
the blue wall and build the yellow wall. You may build only 
one wall at a time and only in that order. Do you understand?" 

Though your head gives a weak nod, you do not understand 
at all. It would not have been so bad to have been asked to beat 
erasers or fill the ink wells, but this seems to serve no purpose. 
Yet there the Master stands, his skull of a head beginning to 
twitch with impatience. So you start stacking the heavy bricks 
one on top of the other, starting with the green ones. When you 
have completed a few rows, the Master takes his leave. 

By the time the green bricks have been stacked into a wall 
as high as a mastiffs shoulder and about three yards long, your 
arms begin to cramp and your hands become raw and blis- 
tered. Things grow worse when, after having dismantled all 
your pointless work, you cannotremember what color the next 
wall is supposed to be. Alone, filled with a sense of hopeless- 
ness, you slump onto the pile of bricks and begin to cry. 

Before long, someone lays a hand on your shoulder. You 
think it's the Master come to scold, but turn to see a kindly- 
looking gentleman in brown robes. "What's wrong, child?" 

His concerned expression speaks of understanding, and 
you venture to say, "Please, sir. I'm lost." 

He stares at you intently for a moment. Then, having 
obviously made a decision, he answers, "Come with me." 
Turn to 188. 



298 

Someone else can get the key. Freedom beckons, and every 
step brings you closer to it. Far behind, the guard cries for you 
to stop, but, Ha! Ha!, you're already out! But, what's this 
blocking your path into the woods? A lion! The Lion! He's as 
large as a horse and too terrible to look upon. Yet, how can you 
take your eyes away? 

"So, child!," he growls. "You would leave behind several 
friends to seek your own safety. Look well into your heart, 
child. You must do better the next time!" 

Desperately, you try to explain, "Oh, but I-" 

"Goodbye!" 

The words hit with a terrific force. When your senses 
return, the Lion has disappeared, and the schoolyard is back. 
Walking glumly into the dormitory, you wonder if you shall 
ever return to that other world to prove yourself to the Lion. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just turn to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

299 

How quickly thoughts slip the mind! (Moments of consid- 
eration have convinced you that Norian said to go up the 
stairs.) Running breathlessly to the top, you bump into one of 
the Scribes. "Aha!" he says, his blank eyes opening wide. 
"Don't I know you? Do I really know anyone? Probably not! 
But this I do know. You ran away! That's bad, oh, very bad 
indeed! Now its off to the dungeons with you!" 

Now you remember that you were supposed to go down- 
stairs ! B ut it is too late. The Scribe in red is determined to catch 
you and put you in prison (though he doesn't know why). 
Turning, you run down the stairs as fast as you can, calling out, 
"Asian! Asian help me!" Things fade before you; the sound as 
of a distant roar reaches your ears. 



When things become clear again, your old schoolyard has 
returned. Sad and confused, you enter the buildings, wonder- 
ing about the land called Narnia and the Lion called Asian. 

Return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and begin again! 

300 

Oh, what will it be like to hit bottom? Splash! Why, very 
much like hitting water! Only you are not the slightest bit wet! 

Rubbing your eyes in disbelief, it is both a grand relief and 
a bitter disappointment to find yourself back in the schoolyard 
in England. Wandering sadly into the red brick buildings, you 
wonder if someday you might return to Narnia and find out 
more about the mysterious Lion, Asian. 



It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 




301 

A few precious moments slip by before Haadreh realizes 
you are escaping (who would have though it?). As you reach 
the bottom of the steps, however, the order for the guards to 
catch you is given. Their heavy footfalls can be heard stum- 
bling down behind as you reach the door and hurry through. 
Beyond lies the maze of unfamiliar corridors. Turn to 163. 



302 

The view through the small windowpane is comforting. 
Two beavers sit at a table in the middle of the one room house. 
One of them wears brown trousers and smokes a big, black 
pipe, while the other one has on a flowered apron and is busy 
serving some soup from a large tureen. Their faces are serious, 
but they do not look at all dangerous. Certainly, it could not 
hurt to knock at the door of such a peaceful home, or could it? 

• Ifyou knock at the door, turn to 251. 

• Ifyou pass by the house, turn to 340. 




303 

The King (being a good King) allows another cheer, then 
continues. "My way leads east towards Cair Paravel. From 
there I shall journey to the Lone Islands and all the way to 
Silver Sea if I must! Now then, for you others. Grumblebelly ! 
You shall cover the woods between here and Beaversdam. 
Shaketail, you and your relatives shall comb the land between 
here and the northern border." 



"What about me?" you ask. 

"Ihavenotforgotten you, child," Daliar replies. "Yourway 
lies along the banks of the Dry River. The great waterway that 
once flowed with the life of Narnia." 

"That was before Haadreh came, and before the Great Well, 
whose water is bitter to the taste and dry in the throat. Follow 
it as far as you will or as far as you can, and if you spy Asian, 
lethimknow of our faith in him. Can you do that, my child?" 

"I can," you answer, meaning that you will try. 

"Good. Now, we mustpart. The animals will take you as far 
as the Dry River. Good bye, my child. I hope we shall meet 
again soon, and if not, that you know nothing but happiness." 

"Good bye, King Daliar," you say, hugging the graying 
monarch. You know then, that even if the Lion should prove 
to be false, at least you have known something genuinely good 
in the King and people of Narnia. Turn to 245. 

304 

Gritting your teeth, you try to ignore the taunts of your 
neighbor. The professor finishes his lecture, saying, "And the 
Golden Rule is this : Follow the Rules and Shun the Lion. Any 
questions?" 

Several questions come to mind, but the professor does not 
allow time for them. The class is immediately dismissed to the 
Recreation Yard. Turn to 244. 



305 

It seems you knew the Golden Rule once, but now the 
answer eludes you. Timidly, you reply, "I don't know." 

Surprisingly, the professor does not fly into a rage, but 
claps his hands together with delight. "Well spoken, child! 
Very wise, indeed! I sense you'll be wearing the red robes of 
the Temple when you are older. Please, put on a blue turban 
and move to the front of the class." 

Nothing seems to make sense anymore, but you are glad not 
to have gotten into trouble. While exchanging hats, the boy 
with freckles gives you a very mean look, and it is with great 
relief that you take a seat in the front row. The rest of the 
session continues with the endless explanation of several 
confusing and rather pointless Rules. After a while, however, 
the professor dismisses the class with a scowl and everyone 
files out into the Recreation Yard. Turn to 244. 

306 

"No! I can't jump! Not down there!" you cry, nearly 
wailing. "Please, just let me go home." 

"You said you had faith in me," Asian growls. "No, you 
cannotjump. You must go home! But before you go, this much 
of your story I will tell you. Many trials and much trouble will 
you pass through before you return again to Narnia!" 

Before you can protest, the Lion gives a monstrous roar. 
There is a great wind, then a terrificjolt, and the next thing you 
know, you are back in the schoolyard, in the fog, alone. 

Asian forgives you. Turn to the Prologue to begin again! 

307 

Though you do feel a small pang of guilt, you decide to tell 
alieanyhow. "Icome from the south. My fatheris a fisherman, 
and I go to sea with him for most of the year. Sometimes I find 
things strange when I return." 



Haadreh's eyes become narrow slits of scrutiny. It looks as 
though he might have caught on- to the story, but then a 
crooked smile breaks out over his face. "Ha, ha!" he laughs. 
"You are perfect, child! I need someone like you to help me 
run the Temple. Everything you need shall be yours for the 
asking! Tomorrow you shall start work!" 

It seems that your little lie has paid handsomely, but you 
must wait until the end to be sure of that. In the meantime, a 
brilliantly colorful robe is draped over your shoulders and a 
heavy turban piled onto your head. That night you dine on a 
baked peacock with all its feathers still on, a roast pig stuffed 
with larks' wings, and braised tripe rolled in sesame oil and 
paprika. Bowls of nuts, berries, and strange fruits follow these 
delicacies, while orange peel dipped in honey and rolled in 
sugar finishes the feast. You grow so heavy from eating that 
two servants must hoist you up from the table and put you to 
bed on a mountain of down. Turn to 195. 

308 

Whatever you do, you cannot risk losing the horn! So, you 
turn and run as fast as you can to the other end of the corridor. 
The man in the turban was serious when he said he did not 
want to chase you; he does not follow. Turn to 291. 

309 

Hugging the black metal of the lantern post, you are 
surprised to find that it is warm and dry as a bone. When you 
peerup through the lantern's globe, thechill leaves your body 
as the light seems to expand, to push back the fog with its 
golden glow. This is turning into a very curious morning, 
indeed! You hold the post closer to see what will happen next. 

The fog becomes thinner and thinner until vague shapes 
begin to make themselves visible. 




But they are not the shapes you think belong in your tidy 
schoolyard. You could almost swear you were standing in the 
middle of a forest! Then all at once, the fog drops away, clean 
as a curtain, leaving just a heavy dew on the ground. 

At last, you can see where you are! But, oh! You must have 
wandered much farther than expected, for you really are 
standing in the middle of a forest! But there aren't any forests 
in London. With a growing panic, you struggle to think of any 
parks near the school where you might have wandered in the 
fog. Not a single one comes to mind. 

You arejust wondering what a lamp-post might be doing in 
a forest and what you should do next, when a sound makes you 
freeze with fear. A low growl rumbles behind your back, too 
deep to be a dog, too large to be anything but a.. .lion! Turning 
about, you see it standing a few (but not nearly enough) yards 
away on the other side of the clearing. It's the biggest lion you 
have ever seen in your life (though at this range, and without 
bars in between, the beast might just seem larger than most). 

Wherever in the world have you gotten yourself? And what 
to do about the lion? 

• If you flee from the lion, turn to 275. 

• If you stay still, turn to 292. 



310 

Asian does not roar ferociously at your answer, nor does he 
bare his teeth and show his claws. Instead, solemn tears appear 
in his eyes as he says, "You are an honest child; and that is a 
wonderful and necessary thing. But, child! Look at me! Am I 
notreal?Feel my breath! Oh,child! You have much to learn!" 

Without quite understanding everything, you bury your 
face in the Lion's mane. When you raise your head, he is gone. 
And the red brick buildings of your school stand around you. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just go to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

311 

In this school questions have a nasty way of making one 
more confused than when one started, so you sit back down. 
The session continues with the explanation of several confus- 
ing and rather pointless Rules. After a while, however, the 
professor dismisses the class with a scowl and everyone files 
out into the Recreation Yard. Turn to 244. 

312 

"Don't be afraid!" you call. "I'm a friend!" Turn to 100. 
313 

As dawn flushes the sky pink and gold above the tops of the 
sighing pines, the King's stallion gallops up to the embers of 
the night's bonfire. Daliar leaps from his mount's back, then 
turns to help you down before declaring, "Friends! It is well 
that none of us linger in the neglected dungeons of the Temple 
any longer, but now we must turn to even graver concerns. 
Unless we can find the source of all our hope, this joyous 
rescue must be in vain! Each of us must travel through a 
different corner of Narnia, blazing a lonely trail in the search 
for Asian, the King over all kings." Turn to 303. 



314 

After listening a moment, and judging the noises on the 
other side to be of the harmless sort, you dare to investigate 
further. Slowly, you inch the door wider open until your head 
just fits through. On the other side is a scene of such tasteless 
splendor your head swims. Though the chamber is immense, 
every inch is adorned to an extravagant degree. Vases, urns 
and planters of every shape and size squat about the floor or 
on stands of overworked brass. Thick carpets spread one over 
the other across the floor, while on the wall, tapestries fight for 
space with paintings of large-eyed dogs or of clowns with too 
much make up. Multi-colored cushions lie in great, precarious 
mounds around a fountain splashing noisily in the center. 

What attracts your attention most of all, however, is the 
curious little man at the far end. He could not be over four feet 
tall, yet a rainbow colored turban rises two feet above his head. 
His silken robes are just as colorful as his hat and trail several 
yards behind his pointed shoes. 

Just as you peek into the room, he jumps into a curious jig 
before a large mirror. With both hands on his hips, he hops first 
to the right, and then to the left, nodding his head up and down 
as he goes. Listening closely, you catch abitofsong that seems 
to go with the dance: 

Oh, you blow a little smoke into their eyes! Promise them 
sunshine and moonbeam pies! Do a little dance and tell a few 
lies! Then they throw up their hands and call you wise! 
Haadreh! Haadreh! Haadreh! 

It is difficult to make any sense out of the odd verse, and 
what does Haadreh mean? Should you stay and find out? 

• Ifyou stay a little longer, turn to 284. 

• Ifyou leave to explore the right hand passage, 
turn to 162. 



315 

The more you say, the worse things seem to become. On the 
other side of the door, a bolt slides home and the lights go out. 
Giving up, you wander off alone into the darkness. The way 
is rough and frightening, but eventually there is an encourag- 
ing sight. The lamp-post glows through the trees! It seems 
home is just around the corner. Then a fire suddenly appears 
on a nearby hill. Several black figures stand around the blaze, 
and their voices echo faintly across the distance. Mystery 
beckons, but so does the lamp-post... and home. 

• Ifyou go to the lamp-post, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen to the voices, turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the fire, turn to 296. 

316 

"Come in," says a deep voice on the other side of the door. 

You enter a room with seven walls and a domed ceiling. 
Around a triangular table in the center sit two men. One is a tall 
pale gentleman in a green robe, while the other is very short 
and plump with a tall turban on his head. You place the book 
on the table quietly as they seem to study your clothes, 
particularly the short trousers you wear to school at home. 

"This is the child I was telling you about," says the man in 
green out of the corner of his mouth. Then to you he snaps, 
"Don't you know to bow before Haadreh the Wise?" 

Embarrassed, you bow to the little man, who jumps to his 
feet and exclaims, "Yes! I see what you mean. Very different 
indeed. Tell me, child. Where do you come from?" 

Answering such questions has never done anything but 
gotten you trouble. Perhaps a little fib is in order here? 

• Ifyou make up a story, turn to 288. 

• Ifyou tell the truth, turn to 217. 



317 

There must be a bit of the tree frog in your blood for you to 
hold on so long! Stone by stone, you measure the way down 
the well until your hand encounters a hole in the side of the 
wall. Further investigation reveals it to be a tunnel, no doubt 
the one Daliar told you about (how many more could there 
be?). Rubbing your tired eyes, you step inside. Turn to 290. 

318 

Not a single breath is allowed to pass through your lips until 
the key is safely in the lock of the door. The hinges screech, but 
the guard stays deeply asleep. Like a band of shadows you and 
all the prisoners of the Temple slip toward the door. The 
guards outside are easily overwhelmed and tied up to be found 
in the morning. You follow the victorious Friends back to the 
embers of the bonfire. Turn to 293. 

319 

The Temple school (or Institute of Enlightened Confusion 
as the ponderous sign above the door declares) is an immense 
room about the size of a good trainyard, filled with children 
and teachers. The noise within is almost deafening. Disorder 
reigns among the boys and girls, who are loosely divided here 
and there into groups led by one or more professors in 
differently colored robes. Some of the groups seem to be 
caught up in heated debate, the professors exchanging loud 
arguments with their students, while others act as if they are 
in the midst of an elaborate game. Only no one seems to be 
enjoying it very much. At first you are surprised not to find, any 
of the intelligent beasts you have come to expect in this land, 
but then you discover that there is indeed such a group on the 
far side of the cavernous hall. 



You take all this in while the guard talks to one of the 
teachers. Soon they are through, and an old man in a white robe 
approaches and speaks severely. "The guard tells me that you 
are an exceptionally gifted child. Well, you'll have to prove 
your confusion. There is to be no favoritism in this school. 
Now come. I will show you to your group." 

The Watcher leaves while the professor takes you across 
the broad tile floor to a place where several children are seated 
on straight-backed chairs arranged in neat rows. You begin to 
take a seat in the back, when the professor snaps at you to 
remain standing. "You know the Rules! You mustputonahat 
first!" His bony finger points at a table where there a several 
piles of hats. Going quickly to the table, you find the hats come 
in three styles and colors. There are pointy red hats, blue hats 
that resemble turbans, and floppy green hats that do not 
resemble much of anything at all. You wonder which hat to 
take and if it makes any difference to the grouchy professor. 
Pick a number and add your Perception bonus: 
'If 2-4, turn to 203. 
• If 5-12, turn to 206. 



320 

With heavy footfalls, the guards give chase. They run a 
close race at first, but then the large dinners in their large 
stomaches catch up with them, and they begin to fall behind. 
Finally, they give out altogether, content to cast curses at your 
vanishing heels. 

Once in the safety of the woods, you pause to take a breath. 
A voice suddenly rises out of the darkness. Turn to 254. 

321 

Either one of the men could probably outrun you (though 
their protruding stomaches do not speak well of their prow- 
ess). A battle seems unavoidable. You tighten up your fists. 
Pick a number and add your Fighting bonus: 

• 1/2-6, turn to 331. 

• If 7-12, turn to 108. 

322 

You want freedom, too! With both fists tight, you join the 
fray. Pick a number and add your Fighting bonus: 

• 1/2-7, turn to 231. 

• If 8-12, turn to 149. 

323 

Turning to Norian, you put a finger to your lips and creep 
closer to the bonfire. Pausing in a deep shadow at the base of 
the hill, you hear snatches of conversation. 

"It is a fine night for a Gathering," says a deep, merry voice. 

"Here, friend, let me help you with that," says another, 
lighter, voice. 

Soft laughter and whispers drift down from the fire along 
with courteous phrases. They certainly do not sound like 
dangerous people! 

• If you approach the fire, turn to 333. 

• Ifyou return to the lamp-post, turn to 335. 



324 

Something tells you that there is more involved here than 
can be found in Haadreh's books, some rule higher than his, 
but you ignore you feelings . After all, y ourjob is to uphold the 
Rules (and you certainly don't want to lose your status). 
Besides, the Satyr knew the Rules and if he chose not to play 
by them, he can very well suffer the consequences. 

"I find the Satyr guilty!" you proclaim loudly. 

"Well spoken!" cries Haadreh with an ugly smile on his 
face. "Take the Satyr away. The child shall attend his execu- 
tion at dawn tomorrow. Bring on the next case!" 

You avoid the look of betrayal on the Satyr's face as he is 
led out of the hall by the Watchers and concentrate instead on 
the feeling of satisfaction at Haadreh's praise. Then, sud- 
denly, there is a great commotion in the Temple and a noise 
like thunder. With a horribly nervous look on his face, Haad- 
reh leaps onto his chair, shaking in every limb. 

A dozen Watchers run toward the double doors as the noise 
grows louder. Suddenly both of the great bronze panels blow 
inward with aterrific force that sends themrollingbackwards. 
The terrific rumbling grows louderuntil you can scarcely hear 
the people shouting, "Asian! Asian has come to free us!" 

You are just wondering what they could mean by all this, 
when a mighty lion bounds into the room. He is much larger 
than a horse, and his eyes burn with a fierce glow. Looking to 
Haadreh for some sort of comfort, you find that the tiny man 
has gone quite pale and his eyes are wide with fright. 

Several tall, strong men and a number of animals in armor 
rush in behind the Lion (one of them looks like a king) and set 
about casting off the prisoners' chains. Meanwhile, the Lion 
has not taken his gaze off of you and Haadreh. 



At last, he opens his mouth and says in a booming voice, 
"The time of the Temple has come to an end. Those who have 
stood by it shall fall with it. So be it." 

Haadreh gives a miserable whimper as the Lion opens his 
greatjaws and lets forth an earth-shattering roar. The hot blast 
of the Lion' s breath lifts you off your feet toward the ceiling . 
Chairs, books, papers, and ostrich plumes rise with you, 
swirling into a whirlwind of dust and rubbish. 

Haadreh is somewhere in the tumult, wailing pitifully, but 
the dust soon gets into your eyes and blinds you. Behind the 
Lion's awful roar comes the sound of splitting wood and 
crashing glass, as if the very ground was opening up; it seems 
the end is near at hand. 

But the terrible sound begins to fade, and the fierce wind 
starts to settle. Slowly you sink to earth; and when you rub the 
dust out of your eyes you find yourself once again in the 
schoolyard with the fog just lifting and the edges of the sun 
shining through. 

Baffled, bruised, and more than a little ashamed, you 
stumble back to your dormitory, hoping that someday you 
might return to Narnia to right the wrongs you've committed. 

It's easy to return to Narnia! Just turn to the Prologue and 
begin again! 

325 

Carefully, you scan the ground for any other drops of blood, 
butfind none. The lioncould have gone any where! Shrugging 
your shoulders, you decide to walk back to the men in the 
clearing. Turn to 132. 



326 

Quiet as a mouse, you pass by the closed door to investigate 
the open one further on. Shadows stir within, so it is with 
exceptional caution that you peer around the jamb. The small 
chamber beyond (heavens, are the walls really orange and 
blue?) proves to be a very tidy bedroom. At a writing desk 
against the far wall there sits a man in brown robes, scribing 
neatly with a white plume on a piece of parchment. His 
concentration seems to be so intense that you could probably 
run in and bounce on his bed without his taking notice. 
Actually, you would very much like to enter this man's 
peaceful room, but should you disturb him? 

• Ifyou enter the room, turn to 276. 

• Ifyou leave to check the closed door, turn to 191. 

327 

"Ah! You are a favored one of Haadreh the Wise!" replies 
the guard to your password. "Please, pass with the blessings 
of no one in particular!" 

Embarrassed (and a little confused), you pass through the 
open door and down a long flight of stairs. At the bottom is a 
corridor with a shadowy, arched ceiling. At its far end shines 
a large copper door, while on the right hand wall is an oaken 
door with bars in its upperhalf . Norian's directions were right ! 
This certainly looks like a prison. 

Cautiously, you approach the door and peer in. As ex- 
pected, a group of prisoners huddle inside. One of the men 
says angrily, "Who's there?" 

"A friend!" you answer wisely. 

The man's anger changes tojoy as he rushes to the bars. "A 
Friend? Can it be? And so young! Well, may Asian bless you, 
child ! B ut be quick ! There, underneath the flagstone is a key 
that unlocks this door." 



Quickly, you lift the flagstone and remove the iron key 
beneath. It turns easily in the lock. The hinges screech but no 
guards appear. After a few warm handshakes, you all exit out 
the large copper door. 

Several Watchers stand guard outside, and they do not 
intend to let you escape. A rather unfair battle breaks out, and 
you nervously wonder what you should do. 

• If you have the King's horn (Key 3 checked), 
turn to 274. 

• Otherwise, turn to 268. 

328 

"I come from another world," you answer, feeling some 
relief in admitting it out loud. "A world where there are buses 
and planes, and people don't talk in riddles, and mice don't 
wear clothes, and — oh, I just wish I could get back there!" 

"You see?" says the Scribe triumphantly. "The child is 
most unbecomingly confused. Or perhaps it is a genius. Who 
can rightly say?" 

"Humbug!" grumps the old man behind his desk. "The 
child is nothing of the sort. It obviously wants to play us for 
fools, so that it might spout whatever dangerous drivel comes 
to mind. Well, I won't have it! The Rules have very special 
instructions for the handling of mischievous rascals. Watch- 
ers, take this child to the dungeons for now. I shall deal with 
it personally later." 

Your stomach churns with dread, but suddenly something 
happens that gives you renewed hope. From the distant bottom 
of the platform comes a commanding (if somewhat shrill) 
voice: "Halt, Watchers! Leave the child in peace!" 



An excited chatter rises from the crowd followed by a 
sudden, profound hush. Around you, the Scribes as well as the 
Watchers and the old man at the desk bow deeply, touching 
their chests and foreheads with a grand flourish of their right 
arms. Dazed, you too look down the steps. What you find is a 
small man (he cannot be more than four feet tall) dressed in 
long, silken robes and a very high, rainbow colored turban. He 
is ascending the stairs as rapidly as his pointed shoes can take 
him. His features are sharp, and his eyes shine with cunning as 
he inspects your school uniform and once freshly shined 
oxfords. 

Without a word to the still bowing audience, he says to the 
old man behind the desk, "O, wise and benevolent Judge, 
Haadreh blesses your graying pate! I entered the chamber at 
the beginning of the child's trial, and have borne perfect 
witness to the proceedings. Unfortunately, your decision 
regarding this wayward cherub was incorrect and not in 
keeping with the Rules. Yet curse yourself not overly, O, 
noble servant, for this is a matter outside the pinched limits of 
your understanding. Only I, Haadreh the Enlightened, am able 
to deal with this situation adequately. So, call off my vigilant 
hounds, and let them nip no more at the heels of our special 
ward. The child shall come with me." 

"Haadreh has spoken! So be it!" utters the old man, his face 
upon the desk. In unison, everyone else in the room repeats the 
solemn phrase. Then the little man turns to you. Certainly you 
are grateful for his having intervened atjust the right moment, 
yet there is something uncomfortable, something too friendly 
about the eager smile in his eyes. Perhaps you should take to 
your heels! 

• If you go with Haadreh, turn to 165. 

• Ifyou attempt to escape, turn to 272. 



329 

"Yes, I suppose I am a friend of the Lion," you stutter, for 
you have no reason to consider yourself his enemy. 

The Scribes stiffen at your words, and their leader says, 
"Tsk, tsk! A Friend of the Lion! Well, you are young. Perhaps 
you don't know what you're talking about. But we must take 
you to Temple How in any case. Come along peacefully." 

• Ifyou accompany the men, turn to 236. 

• Ifyou would rather not go, turn to 261. 

330 

Ten feet from where you spied the first one, you see another 
drop of blood soaking into the ground. Fearing to lose the trail, 
you hurry. There's a third drop! And a fourth! You move 
faster, following the fading trail and the sweet scent that clings 
to it. The trail leads you through a forest of heavy-boughed 
trees that seem to whisper in your ears, urging you on. 

You rush through deep ravines and over high ridges until 
fatigue washes over you. The trail of blood vanishes near the 
top of a lonely hill that sports only one tree at its crest; you fall 
to your knees. Lying on your back in the short grass, gasping 
for breath, you wonder if you could ever become more lost 
than you are now. The trail is gone, and you cannot return to 
those men in the clearing, for you are not at all sure how you 
got to be here. Staring up at the bright sky, you drift in and out 
of a half-sleep as the clouds roll by. Curiously, one group takes 
the likeness of a lion's head, so real it might roar. Drowsily, 
you imagine the cloud could even speak. Or could it? 

Amazed, you stand again and shake yourself from sleep 
(though your legs are still weak and tired). Just then you hear 
some voices coming from the top of the hill. 

• Ifyou want to listen to the voices, turn to 137. 

• Ifyou want to go to whoever is talking, turn to 230. 



331 

Well, we both knew that there wasn't much chance of 
winning, didn't we? When the guards have caught your small 
fists in theirs, they lead you back up Temple How. Turn to 
175. 

332 

"I think I should like to try to free the prisoners," you say, 
hardly believing it. 

"Bravely said!" replies the King. "My, what a fine, noble 
place your world must be, where the children have the hearts 
of kings!" 

• // Norian left the Temple with you (checked Key 2), 
turn to 172. 

• Otherwise, turn to 147. 

333 

"Let's go talk with them," you whisper to Norian. "Maybe 
they can help you!" 

"Child, these are Friends of Asian!" replies Norian. "As 
soon as they see these robes of a Temple Professor that I wear, 
they'll execute me for heresy!" 

"I'll go alone, then,"you declare. "Once I've explained that 
the Temple will throw you in the dungeon if they find you, 
these people will surely help." 

You scamper away before Norian can protest further. Turn 
to 296. 



334 

The men seem to be glad enough to-have you along, but do 
not engage you in conversation. The red-draped Scribes stare 
at the ground as they walk, and the men in brown tunics (the 
ones the Scribes call Watchers) gaze intently into the sur- 
rounding woods. 

You continue onward for several minutes through the dark, 
rustling trees, until you come upon a narrow road. The well 
worn track slopes gently to the east into rolling hills topped 
with fields. Occasionally, you pass by a person carrying a hoe 
or pushing a wheel-barrow; all greet you with silence as 
solemn as in the school room. 

The question of where you are, of course, has never left 
your mind for a moment, but you have long since given up 
trying to get any information out of yourpuzzling hosts. Better 
to wait and watch, you think to yourself; something revealing 
is bound to crop up. 

Just then, something does occur; something that has you 
doubting your senses once again. Ahead, walking along the 
side of the road, are what appear to be two sacks of grain, 
talking nervously and bumping into each other from time to 
time. Removing their attention from their feet, the Scribes 
approach the sacks with quick steps. 

"What's this?" asks the one who seems to be the most 
talkative of the lot. "Put down those sacks at once, and tell me 
what this is about." 

To your amazement, the sacks are placed on the ground to 
reveal two Mice (rather large ones), with burlap aprons tied 
about their waists. Once again, London seems far away. 
"Begging your pardon," the Mice say, bowing low. 

"Stop that silly scraping," gripes the Scribe "Just tell me 
where you think you're going with that grain." 



"We're taking it home, sir, if it pleases," stammers the 
larger of the pair. The other stands, head bowed, to one side. 

"I assume you have already given the Temple its half?" 

"Well, to be perfectly honest, no. You see, we gleaned these 
kernels from a field that had already been harvested. We 
worked all day for these two small bags." The Mouse's voice 
rises to a plaintive squeak. "My wife's hands are sore and 
blistered from the labor, and we need the food for our children. 
Certainly -" 

"Silence!" the Scribe interrupts. "You know the Rules, and 
the Rules state, '...from every measure of grain let the half of 
it be given to the Temple, for without the Temple the fields lie 
waste, and the children go hungry." 

The tiny Mouse nudges his wife close to him and replies 
heatedly, "And Asian says that every man shall make the 
fields fertile of his own hand, and by his own hand enjoy their 
fruits! The grain is ours!" 

"Insolence!" cries the Scribe, his eyebrows gathering in 
angry peaks. "How dare you to mention the Lion's name! 
Watcher's take these Mice to the Temple and put them in the 
prison to await further questioning!" 



This is becoming rather ugly! Of course, you know nothing 
of the affairs of this land, but you find the conduct of the men 
in red entirely unfair and rather beastly. Two of the Watchers 
attempt to grab the Mouse who snaps at them with his sharp 
teeth while his wife scurries to the edge of the road. The men 
are much bigger, however, and wield long spears besides. You 
see that other animals are watching the scene from a distance 
with sympathetic looks on their faces, but no one moves to the 
aid of the Mice. Perhaps, you should do something? 

• Ifyou wish to protest, turn to 260. 

• Otherwise, turn to 180. 

335 

Bidding Norian atearful farewell, you watchhimclimb the 
hill where the fire burns so brightly. "I hope he'll be alright," 
you murmur. "And I hope I get home alright!" Joy fills your 
heart, and you grin. Turn to 122. 

336 

Oh, how you hate bullies! Seeing the cruel treatment of the 
mole makes you want to give the boys a sound beating. You 
bounce toward them; but there are four of them and only one 
of you. Perhaps it would be better to talk things out? 

• Ifyou decide to talk with the boys, turn to 116. 

• Ifyou would ratherfight, turn to 185. 



337 

"I simply want to go to sleep!" you grumble at last. "I want 
to go to sleep, and I want this whole nasty business to be over 
when I wake up!" 

With that you turn your back rudely to the Squirrel, huddle 
in the corner, and drift off to an uncomfortable slumber. A few 
seconds later (or so it seems) you awake to the sound of 
cheering. All the men and animals are on their feet, rushing to 
the open dungeon door. Handsome lords in cloth of gold stand 
outside, greeting their friends and loved ones with warm 
embraces. Just as the last of the prisoners is passing through 
the door, you scramble to your feet andjoin them. Alas you are 
too late, and the door slams shut! Desperately, you beat on the 
door, and shout for them not to leave you behind. 

"They cannot hear you," says a deep voice behind you. 

Turning about, you see a huge Lion sitting between the two 
pieces of broken stone. "They've left me behind," you com- 
plain weakly. 

"No," growls the Lion. "It is you who have left them 
behind. When they asked for help, you turned your back to 
them. Now, as you have written that much of your story, so 
have you written this particular ending. You must go home." 

Sad and ashamed, you run towards the Lion, but he blows 
gently at you with his sweet breath. No amount of running can 
protect you. Slowly, you are blown backwards faster and 
faster until you are flying through the air, ever farther from the 
Lion. Things grow dark, until at last your feet touch the ground 
once again, and a familiar setting appears. It is the schoolyard 
in England with its red brick buildings and lonesome morn- 
ings. Shoulders drooping, you enter the dormitory to dream of 
the day when you might return to the world of the Lion. 

This game is over. Turn to the Prologue to begin the next 
one! 



338 

"School, sir," you answer. 

"Aha!" cries the old man. "I've always suspected those 
bumbling bookworms in the School. A den of conniving 
vipers they are, corrupting the minds of our youth! Why, this 
borders on heresy!" 

"Your Prudentness, I beg of you," says the Scribe, "do not 
be too harsh with the teachers of the Rule. Surely, they cannot 
be altogether at fault in this case, for I very much doubt that 
this child has ever attended the School. When we found it 
wandering alone deep in the woods, it emitted such confused 
babbling as would never be endorsed by the Temple." 

"Hmm. Yes," mumbles the old man, resting his head on his 
palm in contemplation. "Well, then, there is only one thing to 
be done. Return this child to the School, and see that it gets 
taught correctly this time." Then he looks at you again, and 
says, "Just in case no one ever tells you, the Golden Rule is 
this: Shun the Lion and follow the Rules. Good bye." 

Of course, that isn't right, but before you can open your 
mouth to tell him so, a Watcher marches you down the stairs 
and out the door through a complex maze of corridors. What 
is this School going to be like? And how might you escape it? 
Check Key 1. Turn to 319. 



339 

You introduce yourself and a muffled discussion takes 
place inside the house. A voice returns to say, "We don't know 
you. What is it you want?" 

It's getting cold outside! What do you say? Picka number 
and add your Talking bonus: 

• If 2-4, turn to 315. 

• 1/5-12, turn to 312. 

340 

Best to leave strange houses alone. Besides, all you really 
want to do is find the lamp-post and return home. So, you 
journey onward, ignoring weary pains in feet and legs and 
back. Finally, the lantern glows softly ahead of you. Rejoic- 
ing, you walk faster. Just then, a fire appears on top of a nearby 
hill. Dark figures can be seen, and their voices just reach you 
across the distance. Mystery beckons, but so does the 
lantern.. .and home. 

• Ifyou go to the lantern, turn to 122. 

• Ifyou listen to the people, turn to 110. 

• Ifyou approach the people, turn to 296. 

